IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU 
 
DATED THIS THE 17TH DAY OF APRIL, 2021 
 
 
PRESENT 
 
 
THE HON’BLE MR. ABHAY S. OKA, CHIEF JUSTICE  
 
AND 
 
THE HON’BLE MR. JUSTICE SACHIN SHANKAR MAGADUM  
 
COMAP NO. 26 OF 2020 
c/w  
COMAP NOs. 27 OF 2020 AND 28 OF 2020 
 
In COMAP No. 26 of 2020 
 
BETWEEN: 
 
Bank of Baroda, 
A banking company established 
Under the Banking Companies 
(Acquisition and Transfer of 
Undertakings) Act, 1970, 
 
Having its Head Office at: 
Baroda Bhavan, R C Dutt Road, 
Alkapuri, Baroda – 390007. 
 
Corporate Office at: 
Baroda Corporate Centre, 
Plot No.C-26, Block G, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East),Mumbai – 400 051 
 
Represented by its duly constituted 
Attorney and Assistant General 
Manager – Legal, Mr. Tripathi Sudhakar Bhai 
Son of Shri B.G. Bhai Tripathi,  
Aged about 42 years, 
. . . Appellant 
(By Shri Udaya Holla, Senior Advocate for  
Shri. Dharmendra Chatur and Shri. Rahul Prasad, Advocates) 
2 
 
AND: 
1. 
Dr. Bavaguthu Raghuram Shetty, 
(also known as Dr. B.R. Shetty) 
Son of Late Shri Shambhu Shetty, 
Aged about 77 years, 
 
2. 
Dr. Chandrakumari Raghuram Shetty, 
 
Wife of Dr. Bavaguthu Raghuram Shetty, 
 
Aged about 70 years, 
 
 
Both permanently residing at 
 
No.63, Artillery Road, 
 
Ulsoor, Bengaluru – 560 008. 
 
 
Also at: 
 
White House, 
 
Next to Manjunatha Petrol Bunk, 
 
Kinnimulki,  Udupi – 576 101. 
 
 
And at: 
 
Next to Bharath Beedi Works H.O., 
 
Kadri Road, Mangaluru – 575 002. 
 
 
 
 
. . . Respondents 
 
(By Shri Shashikiran Shetty, Senior Advocate 
for Shri Sandeep Lahiri, Advocate)   
 
This Commercial Appeal (COMAP) is filed under Section 
13(1A) of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 read with Order XLIII 
Rule 1(r) and Section 104 of the CPC, praying to call for the 
records of Com.O.S. No. 01/2020 pending before the learned 
LXXXIII Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru 
(CCH-84, Commercial Court) and to allow, in its entirely I.A.No.1 
filed under order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 r/w Section 151 of the 
CPC, 1908, (Annexure-C) and etc. 
 
In COMAP No. 27 of 2020 
 
BETWEEN: 
 
1. 
Dr. Bavaguthu Raghuram Shetty, 
(also known as Dr. B.R. Shetty) 
3 
 
Son of Late Shri Shambhu Shetty, 
Aged about 77 years, 
 
2. 
Dr. Chandrakumari Raghuram Shetty, 
 
Wife of Dr. B.R. Shetty, 
 
Aged about 70 years, 
 
 
Having Residence at: 
 
No.63, Artillery Road, 
 
Ulsoor, Bengaluru – 560 008. 
 
 
Also at: 
 
White House, Next to Manjunatha Petrol Pump, 
 
Kinnimulki, Udupi – 576 101. 
 
 
Presently Residing at: 
 
“Roshini”, Near CV Nayak Hall, 
 
Kadri Road, Kadri, Mangalore – 575 003. 
. . . Appellants 
(By Shri Shashikiran Shetty, Senior Advocate 
for Shri Sandeep Lahiri, Advocate)  
 
AND: 
Bank of Baroda, 
A banking company established 
Under the Banking Companies 
(Acquisition and Transfer of 
Undertakings) Act, 1970, 
 
Having its Head Office at: 
Baroda Bhavan, R C Dutt Road, 
Alakapuri, Baroda – 390007. 
 
Having its Corporate Office at: 
Baroda Corporate Centre, 
Plot No.C-26, Block G, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051, 
Represented by its General Manager. 
 
 
 
 
. . . Respondent 
(By Shri Udaya Holla, Senior Advocate  
for Shri. Dharmendra Chatur  
and Shri.Rahul Prasad, Advocates) 
4 
 
 
This Commercial Appeal (COMAP) is filed under Section 
13(1A) of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 read with Order XLIII 
Rule 1(r) and Section 104 of the CPC, praying to call for the 
records which caused in passing the impugned order dated 
28.08.2020 made in Com.O.S.No.01/2020 passed by the Court of 
LXXXIII Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru 
(CCH-84) and to allow the appeal and set aside the order dated 
28.08.2020 passed on I.A.No.1 and etc. 
 
In COMAP No. 28 of 2020 
 
BETWEEN: 
 
1. 
Dr. Bavaguthu Raghuram Shetty, 
(also known as Dr. B.R. Shetty) 
Son of Late Shri Shambhu Shetty, 
Aged about 77 years, 
 
2. 
Dr. Chandrakumari Raghuram Shetty, 
 
Wife of Dr. B.R. Shetty, 
 
Aged about 70 years, 
 
 
Having Residence at: 
 
No.63, Artillery Road, 
 
Ulsoor, Bengaluru – 560 008. 
 
 
Also at: 
 
White House, 
 
Next to Manjunatha Petrol Pump, 
 
Kinnimulki, Udupi – 576 101. 
 
 
Presently Residing at: 
 
“Roshini”, Near CV Nayak Hall, 
 
Kadri Road, Kadri, Mangalore – 575 003. 
. . . Appellants 
(By Shri Shashikiran Shetty, Senior Advocate 
for Shri Sandeep Lahiri, Advocate)  
 
AND: 
Bank of Baroda, 
A banking company established 
5 
 
Under the Banking Companies 
(Acquisition and Transfer of 
Undertakings) Act, 1970, 
 
Having its Head Office at: 
Baroda Bhavan, R C Dutt Road, 
Alakpuri, Baroda – 390007. 
 
Having its Corporate Office at: 
Baroda Corporate Centre, 
Plot No.C-26, Block G, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051, 
Represented by its General Manager.                  
. . . Respondent 
 
(By Shri Udaya Holla, Senior Advocate  
for Shri. Dharmendra Chatur  
and Shri.Rahul Prasad, Advocates) 
 
 
This Commercial Appeal (COMAP) is filed under Section 
13(1A) of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 read with Order XLIII 
Rule 1(r) and Section 104 of the CPC, praying to call for the 
records which caused in passing the impugned order dated 
28.08.2020 made in Com.O.S.No.01/2020 passed by the Court of 
LXXXIII Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru 
(CCH-84) and to allow the appeal and set aside the order dated 
28.08.2020 passed on I.A.No.II and etc. 
These appeals having heard and reserved for Judgment, 
coming on for pronouncement of Judgment, this day, Chief 
Justice delivered the following: 
 
JUDGMENT 
FACTS: 
 
By Commercial Appeal No.26 of 2020 preferred under the 
provisions of Section 13 (1A) of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 
read with Rule 1 (r) of Order XLIII of the Code of Civil Procedure, 
6 
 
1908 (for short ‘the said Code’), the appellant therein who is the 
original plaintiff has taken an exception to the judgment and order 
dated 28th August 2020 passed by the learned Judge of the 
Commercial Court at Bengaluru.  By the said judgment and order, 
I.A.Nos.I and II filed by the plaintiff Bank in Commercial Suit being 
Commercial Original Suit No.1 of 2020 have been partly allowed.  
The appeal takes an exception to that part of the impugned 
judgment and order by which a part of the relief claimed on 
I.A.Nos.I and II was rejected.  Commercial Appeal Nos.27 and 28 
of 2020 have been preferred by the appellants therein who are 
the original defendants for challenging the same judgment and 
order.  For the sake of convenience, the parties are hereafter 
referred by their status before the Trial Court, that is to say, 
plaintiff and defendants 
 
2. 
The first defendant is a businessman who is stated to have 
multiple businesses spread over the world including India, United 
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom and United States of America 
etc.  The second defendant is the wife of the first defendant and 
both the defendants are the residents of City of Bengaluru.  It is 
pleaded in the plaint that the first defendant controls various 
companies/entities, having their branches at Abu Dhabi, Oman 
7 
 
and Mumbai etc.  It is stated in the plaint that the plaintiff bank 
has sanctioned various credit facilities/loans to the said 
companies and to the said entities.  The details thereof have 
been set out in paragraph 5 of the plaint. Clean demand loan 
facility has also been extended by the plaintiff to the first 
defendant.  The case made out in the plaint is that as on 5th May, 
2020, the plaintiff had advanced an aggregate sum of Indian 
Rs.2077,44,00,000 (Rupees Two Thousand Seventy Seven 
Crores and Forty Four Lakhs) to the first defendant and the 
companies/entitles controlled by him. 
 
3. 
In paragraph 9 of the plaint, the plaintiff has set out the 
details of the personal guarantees executed by the first defendant 
in favour of the plaintiff.  The details of the said personal 
guarantees are as under: 
“a. 
Personal 
Guarantee 
dated 
28.02.2010, 
executed 
by 
Defendant 
No.1 
to 
secure 
the 
repayment obligations of NMC specialty Hospital 
LLC, Dubai for various credit facilities obtained from 
plaintiff’s Abu Dhabi Branch (“Personal Guarantee – 
NSHLLC”). 
b. 
Personal 
Guarantee 
dated 
25.03.2016, 
executed 
by 
Defendant 
No.1 
to 
secure 
the 
8 
 
repayment obligations of BRS Ventures & Holdings 
Limited for various syndicated credit facilities through 
Citibank N.A. and others (including the plaintiff) 
(“Personal Guarantee-BRSV”). 
c. 
Personal Guarantees dated 14.09.2017 and 
23.11.2017, executed by Defendant No.1 to secure 
the repayment obligations of Neo Pharma LLC for 
various credit facilities obtained from the Plaintiff’s 
DIFC 
and 
Abu 
Dhabi 
Branches 
respectively 
(“Personal Guarantees – NPLLC”). 
d. 
Personal 
Guarantee 
dated 
26.09.2017, 
executed 
by 
Defendant 
No.1 
to 
secure 
the 
repayment obligations of NMC Healthcare LLC 
(Oman) for various credit facilities obtained from the 
plaintiff’s Oman Branch (“Personal Guarantee – 
NHLLC, Oman”). 
e. 
Personal 
Guarantee 
dated 
19.06.2019 
executed 
by 
Defendant 
No.1 
to 
secure 
the 
repayment obligations of UAE Exchange Centre LLC 
(“Personal Guarantee – UAEX”). 
 
4. 
It is stated in paragraph 15 of the plaint that as on 5th May, 
2020, 
the 
liability 
of 
the 
first 
defendant 
and/or 
the 
companies/entities  controlled by him is to the extent of Indian 
Rs.1912,52,80,000 (Rupees One Thousand Nine Hundred and 
Twelve Crore Fifty Two Lakh Eighty Thousand) 
9 
 
 
5. 
It is pointed out in the plaint that the first defendant and 
entities controlled by him are under distress and are under 
investigation by multiple Authorities including the agencies 
abroad. The details of the proceedings taken against the first 
defendant have been set out in the plaint. 
 
6. 
Apart from the personal guarantees which are referred 
above, reliance is placed on Minutes of a Meeting held on 18th of 
March 2020 in the plaintiff’s office at Bengaluru when the first 
defendant acknowledged the liability to pay to the plaintiff and 
agreed to provide an “all-out comfort” and secure his liability by 
providing several immovable properties available to him.  
Accordingly, he executed a letter of undertaking with Negative 
Lien and creation of mortgage dated 21st April, 2020 (for short 
“the Negative Lien Letter”) in respect of his and second 
defendant’s sixteen immovable properties situated in Bengaluru 
and Mangaluru etc., along with other assets in favour of the 
plaintiff.  The detailed description of the said properties has been 
incorporated in paragraph 23 of the plaint.  The second defendant 
also joined the first defendant in execution of the Negative Lien 
Letter which has been registered with the Central Registry of 
Securitization Asset Reconstruction and Security Interest of India. 
10 
 
 
7. 
As the defendants committed breaches of the Negative 
Lien Letter and failed to secure the interest of the plaintiff, a legal 
notice dated 3rd May 2020 was served by the plaintiff on the 
defendants on 3rd May, 2020.  A reply dated 6th May 2020 to the 
said notice was issued by the first defendant from which it was 
clear that he has refused to comply with his obligations.  
Therefore, the subject suit being Commercial Original Suit No.1 of 
2020 was filed by the plaintiff before the Commercial Court at 
Bengaluru containing following prayers: 
“(1) 
Specific 
performance 
of 
the 
Letter 
of 
Undertaking with Negative Lien and Creation of 
Mortgage 
dated 
21.04.2020, 
directing 
the 
Defendants to comply with their obligations therein, 
including but not limited to handing over the original 
title deeds of and create a mortgage on the 
immovable properties specified in the Schedule to 
the Letter of Undertaking with Negative Lien and 
Creation of Mortgage dated 21.04.2020 (i.e. Plaint 
Schedule 
Property), 
and 
further 
direct 
the 
Defendants to take all such steps and execute all 
such documents as may be necessary to comply 
with their obligations under the said letter of 
Undertaking with Negative Lien and Creation of 
Mortgage dated 21.04.2020; 
11 
 
(2) 
Permanent 
injunction 
restraining 
the 
Defendants from, in any manner whatsoever, directly 
or indirectly, committing any breach of the Letter of 
Undertaking with Negative Lien and Creation of 
Mortgage dated 21.04.2020; 
(3) 
Permanent injunction restraining Defendants, 
their agents, or any person acting under or through 
them, from, in any manner whatsoever, directly or 
indirectly, 
alienating, 
selling, 
transferring, 
encumbering, dissipating, mortgaging, pledging, 
creating a lien, creating any third-party rights or 
otherwise dealing with any of the assets or 
properties specified in the Schedule to the Letter of 
Undertaking with Negative Lien and Creation of 
Mortgage dated 21.04.2020 (i.e. Plaint Schedule 
Property); 
(4) 
Permanent injunction restraining Defendant 
No.1, his agents, or any person acting under or 
through him, from, in any manner whatsoever, 
directly or indirectly, committing any breach of the 
Personal Guarantees dated 28.02.2010, 25.03.2016, 
14.09.2017, 
23.11.2017, 
26.09.2017 
and 
19.06.2019, produced as Document Nos.12 to 17; 
(5) 
Permanent injunction restraining Defendant 
No.1, his agents, or any person acting under or 
through him, from, in any manner whatsoever, 
directly or indirectly, alienating, selling, transferring, 
12 
 
encumbering, dissipating, mortgaging, pledging, 
creating a lien, creating any third-party rights or 
otherwise dealing with any of his assets or 
properties, movable or immovable, tangible or 
intangible, 
including 
without 
limitation, 
shares, 
mutual funds, monies deposited in bank accounts 
and fixed deposits.” 
 
 
8. 
The payer made in I.A.No.I filed by the plaintiff before the 
Commercial Court was for following interim relief; 
“For the reasons sworn to in the accompanying 
affidavit, it is most humbly prayed that this Hon’ble 
Court may be pleased to pass an order of temporary 
injunction restraining Defendant No.1, his agents, or 
any person acting under or through him, from, in any 
manner whatsoever, directly or indirectly, alienating, 
selling, 
transferring, 
encumbering, 
dissipating, 
mortgaging, pledging, creating a lien, creating any 
third party rights or otherwise dealing with any of his 
assets or properties, movable or immovable, tangible 
or intangible, including 
without limitation, the 
immovable properties specified in the Schedule to 
the Letter of Undertaking with Negative Lien and 
Creation of Mortgage dated 21.04.2020 as owned by 
Defendant No.1 (as more fully described in the 
Schedule hereunder, i.e. Item Nos.1 to 13 and 16 of 
Plaint Schedule property), his shares, mutual funds, 
13 
 
monies deposited in bank accounts and fixed 
deposits, in the interest of justice and equity.” 
 
 
9. 
The aforesaid prayer in I.A.No.I was against the first 
defendant. In I.A.No.II filed by the plaintiff, there are more or less 
identical prayers sought against the second defendant in respect 
of item Nos 14 and 15.  However, there is no injunction claimed in 
respect of her other assets save and except the immoveable 
properties in respect of which she has given undertaking.  By the 
impugned judgment and order, the applications were partly 
allowed by granting following reliefs: 
“I.A.No.I and II filed by the plaintiff bank against the 
defendants No.1 and 2 under Order XXXIX Rule 1 & 
2 R/w Section 151 of CPC are allowed in part. 
 
Consequently the defendants No.1 and 2 are hereby 
restrained temporarily from alienating, encumbering, 
mortgaging or creating any lien with respect to I.A. 
schedule items No.1 to 16 properties till disposal of 
suit.” 
 
 
 
Thus, the relief of temporary injunction for preventing 
alienation of the other assets such as shares, mutual funds, 
monies deposited in bank accounts held by the first defendant as 
prayed in IA No.1 was not granted.  However, injunction as 
14 
 
prayed for against second defendant in IA No.2 was granted as 
prayer was only in respect of immoveable property described in 
suit schedule.   
 
SUBMISSIONS: 
10. 
The learned counsel appearing for the plaintiff has taken us 
to the pleadings and documents on record.  His basic submission 
is that the applications for interim relief being I.A.Nos.1 and 2 
ought to have allowed in its entirety.  He submitted that the Trial 
Court accepted that the first defendant and companies/entities 
controlled by him had borrowed a sum of Rs.2077,44,00,000/- 
(Two Thousand Seventy Seven Crores and Forty Four Lakhs) 
from the plaintiff as on 5th May, 2020 and as on the day, the first 
defendant and companies/entities controlled by him were liable to 
pay to the plaintiff more than Rs.1900 Crores.  He submitted that 
the learned Judge of the Commercial Court has taken a very 
hyper technical view by observing that with respect to other 
properties and assets, there is no schedule incorporated in the 
pleadings and the details of the shares, mutual funds, fixed 
deposits held in the name of the defendants were not mentioned.  
He submitted that the Rule 11 of Karnataka Civil Rules of 
Practice could not have come in the way of considering the 
15 
 
prayer in both the applications.  He submitted that the learned 
Judge of the Commercial Court has appreciated that a sum of 
Rs.1912 Crores of public exchequer was at stake.  He submitted 
that the first defendant had refused to comply with his obligations 
under the guarantees and the Negative Lien Letter.   He urged 
that even the second defendant did not comply with the Negative 
Lien Letter by executing a mortgage.  He submitted that the 
learned Trial Judge ignored that a separate interlocutory 
application was filed by the plaintiff directing the first defendant to 
disclose his assets and properties. He submitted that even after 
recording a prima facie finding that the defendants have not 
complied with their undertakings under the Negative Lien Letter, 
the learned Trial Judge has rejected a part of the prayers for 
interim relief. 
 
11. 
The learned Senior Counsel for the plaintiff has relied upon 
the decision of the Court of Appeal in United Kingdom rendered 
by Lord Denning MR in the case of Mareva Compania Naviera 
SA v International Bulk carriers SA the Mareva1.  He also 
relied upon a decision of Calcutta High Court in the case of 
Popular Jute Exchange Limited v Muralidhar Ratanlal 
                                                           
1 (1980) 1 All ER 213   
16 
 
Exports Limited and Another2.  He also relied upon a decision 
of learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court in the case of 
IL & FS Financial Services Limited v La-Fin Financial 
Services Pvt. Limited3. 
 
12. 
The learned Senior Counsel relied upon a decision of the 
learned Single Judge of this Court in the case of Dr. Bavaguthu 
Raghuram Shetty v Bureau of Immigration and others4 and 
another connected matter.  He pointed out that by the said writ 
petition, the first defendant had unsuccessfully challenged the 
lookout circulars of the plaintiff as well as the Panjab National 
Bank.  He pointed out the submissions made by the first 
defendant in the said writ petition. 
 
13. 
The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the defendants 
pointed out that the first defendant is only a guarantor and that 
public listed companies have taken the monies for their business 
purposes.  He submitted that the loans granted by the plaintiff 
have been secured by assets, undertakings and guarantees.  He 
submitted that the documents on which plaintiff has relied upon 
have been executed in Abu Dhabi.  In fact, the documents have 
                                                           
2 1998 SCC OnLine Cal 15: (2006) 4 CHN 381 
3 2014 SCC OnLine Bom 5014 
4 WP 15032/2020 C/w WP 13862 of 2020 dated 12th February 2021 
17 
 
been executed in favour of the Branch of the plaintiff at Abu 
Dhabi which is a different entity of the plaintiff.  He submitted that 
the cause of action to file the present suit has arisen in United 
Arab Emirates. He relied upon the notification issued by the 
Ministry of Law and Justice of the Government of India on 17th 
January 2020 by which United Arab Emirates has been declared 
as a reciprocating territory for the purposes of Section 41-A of the 
said Code. He submitted that even a suit for specific performance 
of the Negative Lien Letter is not maintainable.  Therefore, the 
prayer for injunction was not maintainable.  He submitted that the 
interim relief sought cannot be granted as it is not in the aid of the 
final relief sought in the plaint.  He urged that there is a non 
compliance by the plaintiff with the requirements of Section 12-A 
of the Commercial Courts Act, 2005.  He submitted that the 
Commercial Court has exercised discretionary jurisdiction  by 
denying a part of the relief for cogent reasons.  He relied upon 
various decisions including the decision of the Bombay High 
Court in the case of Yaswantrao Martandrao Mukane deceased 
through legal representatives Digvijaysingrao and others v 
Khushal R. Bhatia5.  He also relied upon a decision of the Apex 
Court in the case of Seema Arshad Zaheer and Others v 
                                                           
5 1986 SCC OnLine Bom 10 
18 
 
Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai and Others6. 
Relying upon the said decision, he submitted that this Court being 
an appellate Court should not ordinarily interfere with the 
discretion exercised by the Trial Court in the matter of grant of 
temporary injunction. 
CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS: 
 
14. 
We have given careful consideration to the submissions.  
Firstly, it is necessary to refer the decision of the Court of Appeal 
in the case of Mareva Compania (supra).  The principles 
governing grant of an injunction which subsequently became 
known as “Mareva injunction” have been laid down in the said 
decision by Lord Denning MR.  The relevant portion of the said 
judgment reads thus: 
 
“There is only one qualification to be made.  
The court will not grant an injunction to protect a 
person who has no legal or equitable right whatever.  
That appears from North London Railway Co v Great 
Northern Railway Co.  But, subject to that 
qualification, the statute gives a wide general power 
to the courts.  It is well summarized in Halsbury’s 
Laws of England: 
                                                           
6 (2006) 5 SCC 282 
19 
 
 
‘…..now, therefore, whenever a right, which 
can be asserted either at law or in equity, does exist, 
then, whatever the previous practice may have been, 
the Court is enabled by virtue of this provision, in a 
proper case, to grant an injunction to protect that 
right.’   
 
In my opinion that principle applies to a 
creditor who has a right to be paid the debt owing to 
him, even before he has established his right by 
getting judgment for it.  If it is appears that the debt is 
due and owing, and there is a danger that the debtor 
may dispose of his assets so as to defeat it before 
judgment, the court has jurisdiction in a proper case 
to grant an interlocutory judgment so as to prevent 
him disposing of those assets.” 
(Underline supplied) 
 
15. 
A Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in the case of 
Popular Jute Exchange Limited (supra) has again succinctly 
laid down the principles governing Mareva injunction.  Paragraph 
(1) of the said decision reads thus: 
“Mareva Injunction is an established feature of English 
Law and the English Court has been categorical 
enough to record that there should not be any 
hesitation in the matter of such a grant where it 
appears likely that the plaintiff would recover judgment 
against the defendant for a certain or approximate sum 
20 
 
and there is reason to believe that the defendant has 
the assets within the jurisdiction to meet the judgment 
but may deal with the same, so that they would not be 
available or traceable when the judgment is given 
against him.  One of the basic criteria for the grant of 
Mareva Injunction is that the assets must be located 
within the jurisdiction to confer jurisdiction on the Court 
to grant a Mareva Injunction.  Be it noted that this 
concept of grant of Mareva Injunction is not different 
from the power of the High Court to grant interlocutory 
or final order of an injunction and under its general 
power of jurisdiction to grant an ex parte injunction the 
English Court has developed a principle that the Court 
has power to restrain the defendant from removing 
assets from the jurisdiction pending the trial of action 
whenever it was just and convenient to do so.  This 
power was originally exercised when the defendant 
was out of the jurisdiction but has subsequently been 
extended so as to be available against a defendant 
even though he is based within the jurisdiction.  This 
extension of power has its due statutory recognition in 
the Supreme Court Act, 1981 and in particular, 
reference may be made to section 37.” 
(Underline supplied) 
 
16. 
We may also make a useful reference to a decision of 
Bombay High Court in the case of Liverpool and London 
Steamship Protection and Indemnity Association Limited vs. 
21 
 
M.T. Symphony and Others7.  In paragraph 5, the High Court 
held thus: 
5. We then come to the second contention as to 
whether an action in rem can be maintained only 
for security. Again this issue was in issue before 
another appellate bench of this court in the case 
of Islamic Republic of Iran v. M.V. Mehrab, 2002 (4) 
Mh.L.J. 584 : AIR 2002 Bom. 517. The learned 
appellate bench has taken a view that action only 
for security is maintainable. Apart from that there is 
clear support for that authority in the judgment of 
the 
Apex 
Court 
in M.V. 
Elizabeth v. Harwan 
Investment & Trading Pvt. Ltd., 1993 Supp (2) SCC 
433 : AIR 1993 SC 1014. I may advert to 
paragraphs 49 and 50 of the said judgment. The 
Apex Court in the case of M.V. Elizabeth (supra) 
observed as under: 
“49. A ship may be arrested (i) to acquire 
jurisdiction; or (ii) to obtain security for satisfaction 
of the claim when decreed; or (iii) in execution of a 
decree. In the first two cases, the court has the 
discretion to insist upon security being furnished by 
the plaintiff to compensate the defendant in the 
event of it being found that the arrest was wrongful 
and was sought and obtained maliciously or in bad 
faith. The claimant is liable in damages for wrongful 
arrest. This practice of insisting upon security being 
                                                           
7 2003 SCC OnLine Bom 73 
22 
 
furnished by the party seeking arrest of the ship is 
followed in the United States, Japan, and other 
countries. The reason for the rule is that a wrongful 
arrest can cause irreparable loss and damages to 
the ship owner; and he should in that event be 
compensated by the arresting party.” 
“50. The attachment by arrest is only provisional 
and its purpose is merely to detain the ship until the 
matter has been finally settled by a competent 
court. The attachment of the vessel brings it under 
the custody of the marshal or any other authorised 
officer. Any interference with his custody is treated 
as contempt of the court which has ordered the 
arrest. But the Marshal's right under the attachment 
order is not one of possession, but only of custody. 
Although the custody of the vessel has passed 
from the defendant to the marshal, all the 
possessory 
rights 
which 
previously 
existed 
continue to exist, including all the remedies which 
are based on possession. The warrant usually 
contains admonition to all persons interested to 
appear before the court on a particular day and 
show cause why the property should not be 
condemned and sold to satisfy the claim of the 
plaintiff.” 
It may be contended that this arrest can only be 
in respect if the action is maintainable before the 
very court itself for the main relief. However, the 
courts are now granting injunction, which are 
23 
 
described 
as 
Mareva 
injunction. 
A 
Mareva 
injunction is an order of a court to a party or other 
persons over whom the court has jurisdiction, 
directing the way in which the property is to be 
retained or dealt with so as to ensure that the 
property will be available to satisfy any judgement 
in the action. It may be noted that to obtain a 
Mareva injunction there must first be an action 
properly commenced within jurisdiction of the court. 
Courts have extended their jurisdiction also to 
action in rem to restrain the property from leaving 
jurisdiction. See The Rena K., (1979) QB 377. The 
following paragraph is relevant: 
“The Mareva injunction is granted in a case where 
a plaintiff has brought an action here against a 
foreign defendant, and the latter has moneys or 
chattels within the jurisdiction which, if he were not 
prevented from doing so, he would be free to 
remove out of the jurisdiction before the plaintiff 
could bring the action to trial, and, if successful, 
obtain and enforce a judgment against him. 
The injunction takes the form of an order 
restraining the defendant, by himself, his servants 
or agents, from selling, disposing of or otherwise 
dealing with such moneys or chattels or from 
removing them out of the jurisdiction, usually until 
further order. Its purpose is to ensure that, if the 
plaintiff succeeds in the action, there will be 
property of the defendant available here out of 
24 
 
which the judgment which the plaintiff obtains in it 
can be satisfied.” 
The doctrine is however, evolving, permitting 
retaining security obtained until such time to satisfy 
the decree that may be obtained in proceedings 
commenced in other jurisdictions also. There can 
be therefore, no difficulty in maintaining an action 
for security as has been held by the Division Bench 
of this court. Even therefore, if the action is merely 
for security pending final action in the arbitral 
proceedings none the less it can read to mean 
security for satisfaction of the claim in respect of 
action, which may be pending also in some other 
jurisdiction. Considering this aspect of the matter, 
to my mind the proceeding as presently filed is 
maintainable. In the light of that the second 
question will also have to be answered in the 
affirmative. 
That being the position, the reliefs in form of 
Prayer Clause (a) and (b) as sought in the motion 
at this stage must be rejected. 
 
(Underline supplied) 
17. 
The concept of Mareva injunction has been well accepted 
by various High Courts in India.  As noted by the Division Bench 
of Calcutta High Court, one of the basic criteria for grant of 
25 
 
Mareva injunction is that the assets in respect of which injunction 
is claimed must be located within the jurisdiction of the Court. 
 
18. 
Another Division Bench of Calcutta High Court in the case 
of Santosh Promoters Private Limited and Others v. Intrasoft 
Technologies Limited8 dealt with the same issue.  Paragraphs 
No.21 to 23 of the said decision read thus; 
“21. Let us now consider the substance of such 
contention of the learned Counsel appearing for the 
parties. Even assuming that the principle relating to 
grant of Mareva injunction which was originated from 
the English Court is not applicable here but still then 
we cannot be oblivious of the provision contained in 
Order 39 Rule 1(b) of the Civil Procedure Code 
which authorizes the civil court to pass an order of 
temporary injunction for restraining the defendant 
from transferring any property which the defendant 
intends to transfer to defraud his creditors during the 
pendency of the suit for realization of money, even 
though the property in respect of which an order in 
the form of injunction is sought for, is not directly 
and/or indirectly involved in the suit. 
 
22. To understand the true implication of Order 39 
Rule 1(b) of the Civil Procedure Code, it will be 
                                                           
8  2016 SCC Online Cal 8268 
26 
 
profitable for us to set out the said prevision 
hereunder which runs as follows:- 
“Where in any suit it is proved by affidavit or 
otherwise that the defendant threatens, or intends to 
remove or dispose of his property with a view to 
defraud his creditor, the Court may by order grant a 
temporary injunction to restrain such act, or make 
such other order for the purpose of staying and 
preventing the wasting, damaging, alienation, sale, 
removal 
or 
disposition 
of 
the 
property 
or 
dispossessing of the plaintiff or otherwise causing 
injury to the plaintiff in relation to any property in 
dispute in the suit as the Court thinks fit, until the 
disposal of the suit or until further orders”. 
23. If we consider the provision contained in Order 
39 Rule 1 of Civil Procedure Code as a whole which is 
the source of grant of temporary injunction then it 
appears to us that though passing of an order of 
temporary injunction is respect of non-suit property is 
not permissible under order 39 Rule 1(a) and 1(c) of 
the Civil Procedure Code but the Court's power to pass 
temporary injunction in respect of any property which is 
not the subject matter in dispute, is recognized under 
order 39 Rule 1(b) of the Civil Procedure Code and 
such power can be exercised only when the Court 
finds in a suit for realization of money, the defendant 
intends to transfer his properties to defraud his 
creditors.” 
(Underline supplied) 
27 
 
19. 
In paragraph 27 and 28 of the said decision, the Division 
Bench of Calcutta High Court made a distinction between the 
remedy of attachment before judgment under Rule 5 of Order 
XXXVIII of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short “the said 
Code”) and the remedy of grant of injunction under Rule 1 (b) of 
Order XXXIX of the said Code. 
 
Paragraphs 27 and 28 read thus: 
“27. At the very outset, we like to mention here 
that those two provisions operate in different fields 
altogether. Order 38 Rule 5 of the Civil Procedure 
Code contemplates post decree consequences. 
While dealing with such an application, the Court is 
required to find out first as to whether there is strong 
possibility of passing a money decree in favour of the 
plaintiff. If the court is satisfied that there is every 
possibility of passing a money decree in favour of the 
plaintiff, then only the court can pass any order of 
attachment before judgment provided the Court is 
satisfied that the defendant is either trying to dispose 
of whole or any of his property or is about to remove 
the whole or any part of his property from the local 
limits of the jurisdiction of the Court, with an intent to 
obstruct or delay the execution of any decree that 
may be passed against him. Reading the said 
provision as a whole, we are of the view, that order 
of attachment before judgment cannot be passed by 
28 
 
any Court unless the Court is satisfied about the 
conditions as mentioned above. 
 
28. Simultaneously if we consider the provisions 
contained in Order 39 Rule 1(b), of the Civil 
Procedure Code we find that while passing an order 
of injunction, the Court is not required to find out as 
to whether there is every possibility of passing a 
decree in favour of the plaintiff in the suit. While 
considering the application for temporary injunction, 
the Court is only required to ascertain as to whether 
a prima facie case has been made out by the plaintiff 
in the suit. Prima facie case means an arguable case 
meaning thereby that a reasonable dispute is raised 
before the Court which the Court is required to 
resolve ultimately in the suit. A prima facie case is 
distinguishable from a full-proof case. When the 
Court finds that a prima facie case is made out by 
the plaintiff then the Court passes an order of 
injunction so that the ultimate relief which is claimed 
by the plaintiff in this suit is not frustrated and the 
decree which may be passed in the suit will remain 
unexecutable.” 
(Underline supplied) 
20. 
The learned counsel appearing for the defendants relied 
upon the well settled principle that interim relief can be granted 
only in the aid of final relief and in this case, there is no relief 
29 
 
prayed for recovery of money.  He relied upon well known 
decision of the Apex Court on this aspect in the case of Cotton 
Corporation of India Limited v. United Industrial Bank 
Limited and Others9.  He also relied upon a decision of the Apex 
Court in the case of Haryana Financial Corporation v. 
Gurcharan Singh and Another10.  In the said decision, the Apex 
Court held that a mere undertaking to create a mortgage is not 
sufficient to create an interest in any immoveable property. The 
Apex Court observed that mere undertaking that a person would 
not dispose of the properties mentioned during the currency of 
the loan would not create any charge on the immoveable 
properties mentioned therein. It was a case where the first 
defendant before the Apex Court had borrowed money from 
Haryana State Financial Corporation, which is a Corporation 
constituted under the State Financial Corporation Act, 1951.  The 
first defendant had given an undertaking not to dispose of the 
properties during the currency of the loan.  The State Financial 
Corporation took over the property and sold the same. The wife of 
the second defendant before the Apex Court filed a civil suit and 
get a declaration that she was the absolute owner of the property 
sold by the State Financial Corporation.  A declaratory suit was 
                                                           
9 (1983) 4 SCC 625 
10 (2014) 16 SCC 722 
30 
 
filed by the State Financial Corporation claiming that the decree 
granted in favour of the first defendant’s wife was null and void.  
The suit was decreed.  The second defendant before the Apex 
Court (wife of the borrower) filed an appeal.  The said appeal was 
allowed.  The second appeal preferred by the State Financial 
Corporation was also dismissed and that is how the matter was 
carried to the Apex Court.  The Apex Court in the facts of the 
case held that as there was no mortgage created in favour of 
State Financial Corporation, the undertaking was not sufficient to 
create an interest in the property and therefore, it could not have 
been sold by the State Financial Corporation.  This decision has 
no relevance in this case, as the plaintiff bank is not seeking to 
sell the property in respect of which an undertaking was given by 
the defendants to create a mortgage. The Bank is seeking only 
prohibitory injunction pending the prayer for specific performance 
of the Letter of Negative Lien of which specific performance has 
been sought in the suit.  
21. 
Now, we come back to the facts of the case in hand.  In the 
plaint, specific performance of the Letter of Negative Lien has 
been sought.  A permanent injunction was sought restraining the 
defendants from in any manner committing breach of the 
31 
 
undertakings in the Negative Lien Letter.  We have already 
quoted the prayers of interim relief made in I.A.Nos.I and II. 
22. 
In the guarantee executed by the first defendant on 28th 
February 2010, there is a clause in respect of the liability of the 
first defendant.  It is provided that the plaintiff bank will have a lien 
on all securities belonging to him.  In the plaint, reliance is placed 
on a personal guarantee executed by the first defendant in favour 
of the plaintiff on 14th September, 2017.  Clauses No.4.2.1 and 
4.2.2 are material for reconsideration which read thus: 
“4.2.1 The Guarantor has carefully reviewed each of 
the undertakings of the Borrower under the 
Facility 
Agreement 
(the 
Borrower 
Undertakings) and the Guarantor hereby 
undertakes 
to 
comply 
in 
all 
respects, 
throughout the Security period, with all of the 
Borrower Undertakings, which relate to them 
as if such Borrower Undertakings were given 
by them hereunder. 
4.2.2 The Guarantor hereby agrees that the Bank 
has an absolute right to call upon the 
Guarantor to declare on oath the details of all 
his/her/its assets and when called upon, the 
Guarantor will unconditionally, within a period 
of three (3) days, declare on oath, the details 
32 
 
of all his/her/its assets (whether moveable or 
immoveable, whether tangible or intangible), 
whether held solely or jointly, and, whether 
constitutes Security for this Guarantee or not, 
in a form and manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
The Guarantor agrees and undertakes that 
such 
disclosed 
assets 
shall 
not 
be 
encumbered or disposed off by the Guarantor 
without the prior written approval of the Bank, 
till the Guarantor discharges his guarantee 
obligation herein or till the Bank discharges 
this Guarantee. 
This Guarantor confirms that it shall if so 
required by the Lender(s), provide a networth 
statement from a chartered accountant, in the 
form and manner acceptable to the Bank, 
detailing the list of assets owned by the 
Guarantor.” 
(Underline supplied) 
 
23. 
Clause 
4.2.2 
has 
some 
relevance 
to 
additional 
undertakings incorporated in the Schedule II in the said 
guarantee by the first defendant.  Clause (ii) of the additional 
guarantee reads thus: 
“(ii) 
The Guarantor hereby undertakes that he/she 
shall not sell, transfer, mortgage, charge, 
33 
 
pledge or create any lien or in any way 
encumber 
his 
properties, 
assets 
and 
investments, without the Bank’s prior written 
consent 
till 
the 
obligations 
under 
this 
Guarantee are discharged in full.” 
(Underline added) 
 
24. 
Apart from the aforesaid guarantee, there is also a personal 
guarantee dated 23rd November 2017 executed by the first 
defendant in which the first defendant agreed not to sell, transfer 
otherwise dispose of whole or any part of his assets.  The same 
is the clause in the guarantee dated 19th June 2019 executed by 
the first defendant.  In fact, there are six guarantees dated 28th 
February 2010, 25th March 2016, 14th September 2017, 23rd 
November 2017, 26th September 2017 and 19th June 2019 
executed by the first defendant containing more or less similar 
covenants.  Hence, the first defendant had undertaken to disclose 
all his movable and immoveable assets when called upon by the 
plaintiff and has undertaken not to dispose of the same without 
the prior written approval of the plaintiff bank. 
 
25. 
Before we come to the Negative Lien Letter, there was a 
meeting held in Bengaluru on 18th March 2020, which was 
34 
 
attended by the Senior Officers of the plaintiff and the first 
defendant.  It is relevant to note that the assurance given by the 
first defendant in the said meeting were recorded in the minutes 
of meeting.  The relevant portion of the minutes reads thus: 
“Shri 
Shetty 
has 
assured 
Shri 
Murali 
Ramaswamy to provde all-out comfort to the Bank to 
secure 
the 
Bank’s 
exposure 
with 
immovable 
properties available with him.  During the course of the 
meeting itself, Shri Shetty has indicated to offer the 
immovable properties situated at various places viz 
Assam Tea Company; Property at Mukka, Suratkal 
Taluq, Mangalore; Property at B R Meadows, Ajjarkad, 
Udupi; Property at Udeshi Development, Bangalore; 
03 open plots situated near Vijaya Cooperative 
Society, Vijaya Bank Layout, Bilekahalli, Bangalore, to 
secure the aggregate exposure of the Group.  In 
response, Shri Murali Ramaswamy suggested that full 
details/photo copies of the documents of above 
mentioned 
properties 
be 
handed 
over 
to 
a 
representative of the Bank to complete required 
formalities to enable the Bank to create a charge.” 
(Underline supplied) 
 
26. 
Now, we come to the Negative Lien Letter.  This letter is 
signed by both the defendants.  In the said letter, the defendants 
have stated thus: 
35 
 
“Now, I/ we the Promoter/Guarantors in the account 
is/are offering the additional immoveable Assets 
situated in State of Karnataka – India, particularly 
mentioned/specified in the Schedule I hereunder, 
as security/ and purpose to create Negative Lien 
Charge of the Bank over the said Assets.  It is 
agreed by me/ us that I/we shall convert the 
Negative Lien Charge of the Bank over the said 
assets (All Assets / Part assets, (mentioned in Sch 
1) in Mortgage interest favouring the Bank as and 
when called by the Bank to do so.” 
(Underline supplied) 
27. 
Schedule 1 contains detailed description of the properties 
held by the first and the second defendants.  Some of the 
undertakings given in the said letter by the defendants are 
material.   
Clauses 2 to 4 are material which read thus: 
“2. 
I/We hereby undertake and confirm that we 
shall be transferring all right or benefits of the 
schedule 
mentioned 
properties/assets 
in 
favour of the Bank for securing aforesaid credit 
facility as and when called by Bank to do so. 
3. 
I/We hereby irrevocably undertake to create 
mortgage by deposit of title deeds or by way of 
Simple 
Registered 
mortgage 
of 
my/our 
36 
 
property/ies detailed herein below in the 
Schedule / to secure / to additionally secure 
the borrowing (s) made by the captioned 
Borrower Companies and when called upon by 
the Bank to do so and also undertake not to 
create or grant to any person, except bank, 
any lien, security interest, encumbrance, 
charge on title, mortgage, pledge or similar 
interest in any of the property as mentioned in 
the Schedule I. 
4. 
I/We hereby agree on demand by the Bank 
that to transfer and deliver to the Bank all 
securities, 
documents 
and 
papers 
in 
connection with the said properties and to 
execute such documents in favour of the Bank  
as may be necessary or advisable to transfer such 
asset in favour of the Bank.” 
(Underline supplied) 
28. 
Prima facie, the following are the obligations of the 
defendants under various documents executed by them: 
(i) 
The first defendant guaranteed repayment of the 
amount advanced by the plaintiff bank to him and to 
the companies/entities controlled by him.  Hence, he 
37 
 
is liable as a guarantor.  In case of one loan facility, 
he is the borrower. 
(ii) 
The first defendant agreed to disclose his other 
assets whether moveable or immoveable, tangible 
and intangible as and when called upon to do so and 
undertook not to sell or transfer or in any manner 
encumber his properties, assets and investments 
without approval of the plaintiff bank or till guarantee 
was discharged; and  
(iii) 
Both the defendants agreed to create mortgage of 
sixteen immoveable properties mentioned in the 
schedule of the plaint for securing the outstanding 
loan.   
29. 
We must refer to the correspondence exchanged between 
the parties before filing the suit. The plaintiff through his Advocate 
issued a notice dated 3rd May 2020 to the first defendant.  The 
notice refers to all the documents executed by the defendants 
including the Negative Lien Letter executed by the defendants. By 
the said notice, the first defendant was called upon to provide list 
of his assets (whether movable or immovable) across the world 
along with all documents of ownership, right, title and interest and 
38 
 
was called upon solemnly undertake that he will not encumber or 
dispose of the said assets without prior approval of the plaintiff.  
The first defendant was called upon to hand over original title 
deeds of sixteen immovable properties specified in the schedule 
to the Negative Lien Letter and execute a mortgage by deposit of 
title deeds in favour of the plaintiff. The first respondent was 
called upon to secure outstanding debt equivalent to Indian 
Rs.1,742,04,53,503.56 (Rupees One Thousand Seven Hundred 
Forty Two Crore Four Lakh Fifty Three Thousand Five Hundred 
and Three Rupees and Paise Fifty Six only) as on 22nd April 
2020.  A similar notice was sent by the same Advocate for the 
plaintiff on 5th May 2020 to the second defendant making similar 
requisitions.  The reports regarding service of the notices have 
been placed on record.  It must be noted here that the notice 
addressed to both the defendants specifically relies upon the said 
Negative Lien Letter executed by both of them and other 
documents of guarantee executed by the first defendant.  A reply 
was sent by the first defendant on 6th May 2020 to the Advocate 
for plaintiff.  Perusal of the reply shows that it is as vague as 
possible.  It is pertinent to note that in paragraph No.2 of the said 
reply, the first defendant has stated that: 
39 
 
“2. 
Please note, that our Client shall be bound by 
the terms and conditions of only such of the 
Agreements and Undertakings which have been 
legitimately executed by him and not by any of the 
documents unilaterally printed on blank papers 
containing the signatures of our client, which have 
been taken by your client, from time to time, citing 
administrative reasons.  This also applies to the 
documents which you have detailed out in the 
references portion of your aforementioned legal 
notice.” 
In paragraph No.5 of the said reply sent by the first defendant it is 
stated that: 
“Our client informs us that he has not become 
incapable of duly discharging all his legal obligations 
to all such parties to whom he legitimately owes such 
obligations and he is willing to discharge all such 
obligations, as and when he is legally and 
contractually bound to do so.  The aforementioned 
allegation on the part of your client is highly 
mischievous and with an ulterior and malafide 
intention.” 
It is pertinent to note that in the said reply of the first defendant 
there is no denial of the execution of letter of Negative Lien and 
creation of mortgage dated 21st April 2020 as well as guarantee 
documents.  In view of refusal of the first defendant to comply 
40 
 
with the notice dated 3rd May 2020, on 12th May 2020 the present 
suit was filed by the plaintiff.  The defendants did not disclose 
their all assets (movable and immovable) though called upon to 
do so by the aforesaid notices. 
30. 
In the statement of objections filed by the first defendant to 
I.A.No.I filed by the plaintiff, again there is no denial of the 
execution of the said Negative Lien Letter.  But it is contended 
that it is not an agreement and it does not create rights and 
obligations in favour of either parties.  It is contended that as the 
loan has been disbursed and is repayable in United Arab 
Emirates, all the rights and obligations arise at United Arab 
Emirates.  It was contended that the said letter is not enforceable.  
Further it was contended that the letter has not been signed by 
the principal barrower.  It is further contended that on the said 
letter which was a blank document, the signatures of the 
defendants were fraudulently obtained.  It is contended that in the 
lockdown, the defendants have been forced to sign the said letter.  
There are the usual defences of borrowers of a Bank which are 
taken by way of an afterthought.  In the statement of objections, 
the defendants have not denied the meeting held on 18th March 
2020.  About the advance of various amounts by the plaintiff to 
41 
 
the first defendant and other entities/companies controlled by 
him, there is a general denial.  However, in paragraph 8, the first 
defendant has accepted that the amount as pleaded by the 
plaintiff was advanced to him.  
 
31. 
Now, coming to the impugned order, in paragraph No.25, 
the learned Trial Judge has held that a prima facie case has been 
established by the plaintiff.  He has also dealt with the stand 
taken by the defendants regarding revocation of the Negative 
Lien Letter dated 21st April 2020.  While dealing with the said 
contention, the learned Trial Judge has rightly observed that in 
the reply dated 6th May 2020 sent by the first defendant to the 
legal notice served by the plaintiff, the said contention was not 
raised.  The reason given by the learned Trial Judge for declining 
to give full relief have been recorded in paragraph 31 of the 
impugned order and judgment.  The paragraph 31 reads thus: 
“31. If the properties movable or immovable held 
by the defendants were to be disposed off, the 
plaintiff bank will be put to hardship and irreparable 
loss and injury will be caused to the plaintiff bank.  
Thus there is balance of convenience lies in favour 
of the plaintiff bank in granting the relief as prayed in 
the interim applications. On going through the 
42 
 
recitals of the applications only with respect to 
immovable properties the schedules are mentioned 
which can be considered for granting of interim relief 
as claimed by the plaintiff.  But with respect to 
movable properties and other properties and assets 
no 
such 
schedule 
mentioned 
in 
the 
interim 
applications with respect to such shares, mutual 
funds, fixed deposits, bank deposits held in the name 
of 1st defendant.  Hence the blanket injunction 
cannot be granted with respect to those movable 
properties and provision of Order 39 Rule 1 (a) 
cannot be invoked.  The Karnataka Civil Rules of 
Practice in rule 11 provides that every plaint or 
original petition where the interim relief sought with 
respect to movable or immovable property shall 
contain the description of the property, so as to 
clarify the identification of the properties.  Without 
identifying the properties or ascertaining the movable 
properties and their details no such blanket 
injunction can be granted.  The plaintiff has not 
produced the details of movable assets like shares, 
mutual funds, fixed deposits, bank accounts with 
respect to the defendant No.1 and without furnishing 
such details the question of granting the interim relief 
with respect to movable properties of the defendants 
cannot be considered.” 
(Underline supplied) 
43 
 
In paragraph 33, the finding on the issue of balance of 
convenience has been recorded in favour of the plaintiff.  
Paragraph 33 reads thus: 
33. 
On 
going 
through 
the 
entire 
documents, pleadings and on hearing both the 
sides, it is pertinent to note that huge money has 
to be recovered by the plaintiff bank from the 
principal borrower and also 1st defendant as the 
guarantor 
with 
respect 
to 
the 
said 
loan 
transactions 
and 
if 
the 
petition 
schedule 
properties 
were 
to 
be 
alienated 
by 
the 
defendants, the plaintiff bank would be put to 
hardship 
and 
thus 
there 
is 
balance 
of 
convenience lies in favour of the plaintiff bank in 
granting such interim relief as prayed in both the 
applications till disposal of suit.  Under these 
circumstances, I answer points No.2 and 3 in 
favour of the plaintiff bank.” 
32. 
We have already quoted prayers made in I.A.No.I against 
the first defendant.  Similar prayer has been made in I.A.No.II 
against the second defendant except for the fact that an 
injunction against her was confined to item Nos 14 and 15 in the 
Schedule in the plaint.  The temporary injunction was prayed for 
in respect of item Nos.1 to 13 and 16 (owned by the first 
defendant) in the plaint schedule in I.A.No.I and item Nos.14 and 
44 
 
15 (owned by the second defendant) in the plaint schedule in 
I.A.No.II.  This part of the injunction has been granted under the 
impugned order in respect of item Nos.1 to 16 in the schedule of 
property.  However, relief has not been granted in respect of 
movable or immovable, tangible or intangible, properties, shares, 
mutual funds, monies deposited in bank accounts and fixed 
deposits of the first defendant.  The only reason given by the 
learned Trial Judge is that the said properties have not been 
described in the plaint.  It is pertinent to note that under the 
personal guarantee dated 14th September 2017 as well as in 
general form of guarantee executed on 25th February 2010, the 
first defendant had agreed that as and when called upon, within a 
period of three days from the date of receipt of the notice, he will 
unconditionally provide a list of all his assets (whether movable or 
immovable, whether tangible or intangible, whether held solely or 
jointly) across the world.  It is further provided that the first 
defendant undertakes that such disclosed assets shall not be 
encumbered or disposed of by him without prior approval of the 
plaintiff bank.  In fact, in the additional guarantee contained in 
general form of guarantee executed by the first defendant on 28th 
February 2010, he has undertaken not to sell, transfer, mortgage, 
charge, pledge or in any way encumber his properties without 
45 
 
plaintiff’s prior consent. There are similar covenants in other 
guarantee documents executed by the first defendant. After quoting 
the said clauses in the legal notice  dated 3rd May 2020, the first 
defendant was called upon to disclose the list of all his assets 
whether movable or immovable, whether tangible or intangible, 
whether solely or jointly owned across the world.  Prima facie, in 
view of clauses in the guarantees, the first defendant was under an 
obligation to disclose all other assets held solely or jointly by him.  
Further, by sending a reply dated 6th May 2020, the first defendant 
refused to disclose the assets.  That is the reason why the 
description of the assets held by the first defendant could not be 
specifically set out in the plaint except properties No.1 to 16 in the 
plaint schedule. That is the reason why a blanket injunction was 
claimed in respect of the other assets held by both the defendants.  
The reliance placed by the learned Judge of the Commercial       
Court on Rule 11 of the Civil Rules of Practice is not correct.  The          
same are procedural rules.  It is well settled that the procedure is a 
handmaid of justice.  It cannot be used to defeat the substantive 
rights. Though the defendants were called upon to do so by a 
notice, they refused to furnish any details of their other       
properties. Therefore, the description of the said properties       
could not be incorporated in the plaint.  That was no ground to   
46 
 
deny the relief.  The first defendant cannot be allowed to take an 
advantage of his wrong by relying upon the procedural Rules. 
 
33. 
The first prayer in the plaint is for specific performance of 
the terms of the Negative Lien Letter.  Prayer (3) is for permanent 
injunction restraining the defendants from alienating, selling or 
transferring the sixteen properties mentioned in the schedule to 
the Negative Lien Letter.  Prayer (5) which we have quoted 
above, seeks injunction restraining the defendants from alienating 
or creating third party rights in respect of the assets of the first 
defendant, his properties, movable or immovable, shares, mutual 
funds, money deposited in the bank accounts and fixed deposits 
are concerned.  As noted earlier, the first defendant has agreed 
under the guarantee documents not to alienate, transfer or sell 
any of his properties and investments without prior consent of the 
plaintiff bank till the obligations under the guarantee are 
discharged or till guarantee is cancelled. 
 
34. 
Considering the response given to the legal notice sent by 
the plaintiff, prima facie it appears that the first defendant has 
declined to disclose his other assets.  The fourteen properties 
listed in the schedule to the said letter of Negative Lien are of the 
first defendant and two are of the second defendant.  They have 
47 
 
not come forward to execute a mortgage in respect of the said 
sixteen properties.  The question is whether they can be 
permitted to dispose of these properties.  Whether the Negative 
Lien Letter can be specifically enforced or not is a question to be 
decided at the time of trial. Without performing their obligations 
under the said Negative Lien Letter of creating a mortgage in 
respect of sixteen properties, there is every likelihood of the 
defendants alienating the same for defeating the claim of the 
plaintiff.  Moreover, the first defendant has undertaken not to sell, 
transfer or alienate his other assets without the approval of the 
plaintiff bank. Therefore, the immoveable assets of the 
defendants as mentioned in the Schedule in the plaint and other 
assets of the first defendant will have to be protected by grant of 
a temporary injunction.   
 
35. 
The recovery of amounts outstanding will be a long drawn 
process.  Therefore, the aforesaid assets of the defendants 
cannot be allowed to be transferred or alienated without the leave 
of the Court. 
36. 
The apprehension expressed in the plaint is that the 
defendants may dispose of their assets so that the same would 
disappear by the time a judgment is delivered against them or 
48 
 
against the entities/companies controlled by the first defendant in 
recovery suit. 
37. 
Perusal of plaint shows that the defendants are permanent 
residents of Bengaluru.  Moreover, the suit is filed for enforcing 
personal obligations of the defendants under the documents 
executed by them.  Therefore, in view of Clauses (a) and/or  (c) of 
Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, prima facie, the 
Commercial Court at Bengaluru has jurisdiction to entertain the 
suit. 
38. 
A faint attempt was made by the learned Senior Counsel 
appearing for the defendants to argue on non compliance of Sub 
Section (1) of Section 12A of The Commercial Courts Act, 2015.  
Sub Section (1) of Section 12A of The Commercial Courts Act, 
2015 reads thus: 
“12A.  Pre-Institution Mediation and Settlement.-    
(1) A suit, which does not contemplate any urgent 
interim relief under this Act, shall not be instituted 
unless the plaintiff exhausts the remedy of pre-
institution mediation in accordance with such manner 
and procedure as may be prescribed by rules made 
by the Central Government.” 
49 
 
Considering the nature of the present suit, it does 
contemplate urgent interim relief and therefore, Sub Section 1 of 
Section 12A is not at all applicable in the present case. 
39. 
The submission of the learned senior counsel appearing for 
the defendants was that by relying upon examples of certain 
businessmen who have fled abroad with a view to avoid their 
liabilities, defendants are being targeted.  He submitted that even 
look out notices have been issued against them. All this is 
irrelevant to decide the issues involved in the appeal. 
40. 
The first defendant by his reply dated 6th May 2020 virtually 
declined to comply with the requisitions in the legal notice sent on 
3rd May 2020.  Prima facie, it is the obligation of the first defendant 
to disclose the details of all other movable and immovable 
properties held by him.  He is under an obligation not to sell or 
transfer the same without consent of the plaintiff bank.  Thus, there 
is no manner of doubt that a prima facie case was established by 
the plaintiff.  It is obvious that considering the extent of amounts 
payable by the companies/entities of the first defendant and the first 
defendant in his capacity of the borrower and guarantor, the balance 
of convenience is in favour of the plaintiff. It goes without saying that 
50 
 
irreparable loss will be caused to the plaintiff which is nationalised 
bank, if injunction is not granted. 
41. 
 Hence, the appeal preferred by the Bank must succeed and 
the appeals of the original defendants must fail.  Hence, injunction 
as prayed will have to be granted in both I.A.No.I and I.A.No.II.  
Hence, we pass the following: 
ORDER 
 
Commercial Appeal Nos.27 and 28 of 2020 are dismissed;  
Commercial Appeal No.26 of 2020 is allowed; 
 
There will be temporary injunction against the defendants in 
terms of prayers made in I.A. Nos. I and II of Commercial Original 
Suit No. 1 of 2020.   However, as regards the other assets (other 
than immoveable property described in item Nos 1 to 13 and 16 of 
plaint schedule) held by the first defendant, it will be always open for 
the first defendant to apply to the plaintiff Bank for grant of 
permission to transfer the same; 
 
There will be no order as to costs. 
 
 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
CHIEF JUSTICE 
 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
JUDGE 
Mr/Vr 
