1 
 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU 
 
DATED THIS THE 3rd DAY OF JUNE, 2021 
 
 
PRESENT 
 
 
THE HON’BLE MR.ABHAY S. OKA, CHIEF JUSTICE  
 
AND 
 
THE HON’BLE MR.JUSTICE SACHIN SHANKAR MAGADUM  
 
COMAP NO.37 OF 2020 
 
BETWEEN: 
 
1. 
Kenrise Media Pvt. Ltd., 
A Company incorporated under  
the Companies Act, 2013, 
Having its registered offices  
at: #849, 11th Main, 2nd Cross,  
HAL 2nd Stage, Indiranagar,  
Bengaluru – 560008,  
Represented herein by its authorized  
signatory Mr. Rohin Dharmakumar. 
 
 
2. 
Mr. Rohin Dharmakumar, 
Son of Mr. Valal Sekharan Dharmakumar, 
Aged:43 years, 
Chief Executive Officer of Kenrise Media Pvt Ltd., 
Having his offices at: #849, 11th Main, 
2nd Cross, HAL 2nd Stage, 
Indiranagar, Bengaluru – 560 008. 
 
3. 
Ms. Seema Singh, 
Daughter of Mr. Kabindra P Singh, 
Aged:49 years, 
Having her offices at:#849, 11th Main, 
2nd Cross, HAL 2nd Stage, 
Indiranagar, Bengaluru – 560 008. 
2 
 
4. 
Mr. Sumanth Raghavendra, 
 
Son of Mr. H.N. Raghavendra, 
 
Aged:46 years, 
 
Having his offices at:#849, 
 
11th Main, 2nd Cross, HAL 2nd Stage, 
 
Indiranagar, Bengaluru – 560 008. 
 
 
 
 
. . . Appellants 
 
( By Shri Pradeep Nayak, Advocate) 
 
AND: 
1. 
Mr. Ashish K. Mishra, 
Son of Mr. Ashok Kumar Mishra 
Aged:35 years, 
Residing at 3B, Shakti Unicus, 
Plot F1, Deonar Pada Road, 
Inside Duttaguru Society, 
Gate No.5, Mumbai – 400 088. 
 
2. 
Ms. Harveen Ahluwalia 
 
Daughter of Mr. Baljit Singh Walia, 
 
Aged:26 years, 
 
Residing at:210A, 2nd Floor, 
 
Leela Ram Market, 
 
South Extension – II, 
 
New Delhi – 110 049. 
 
3. 
Mr. Padip Kumar Saha 
 
Son of: Not known 
 
Aged:35 years, 
 
R/at:187-D, Siddhartha Extension, 
 
Pocket – C, South Delhi – 110 014. 
 
4. 
Mr. Pranav Srinivasan, 
 
Son of Mr. Srivilasan Madhavan, 
 
Aged:27 years, 
 
Residing at:72B, Third Floor, 
 
Nil Block, Malviya Nagar, 
 
New Delhi – 110 017. 
 
3 
 
5. 
Slowform Media PTE Limited, 
 
A Company incorporated under  
the laws of Singapore, Having  
its registered office at:68 Circular Road, 
 
#02-01, Singapore 049422, 
 
Represented by its authorized signatory. 
 
6. 
Slowform Media Private Limited, 
 
A Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013, 
 
Having its registered office at:E-210, 2nd Floor,  
 
H-16, MHADA Building, SION Transit Camp Road, 
 
Pratiksha Nagar, 
 
Mumbai – 400 022, 
Represented by its authorized signatory. 
 
7. 
Ms. Priya Bubna, 
 
Wife of Mr. Ashish K Mishra 
 
Aged:35 years, 
 
Residing at:3B, Shakti Unicus, Plot F1, 
 
Deonar Pada Road, 
 
Inside Duttaguru Society, 
 
Gate No.5, Mumbai – 400 088. 
. . . Respondents 
 
(By Shri M. Dhyan Chinnappa, Senior Advocate 
for Shri Gerald Manoharan, Advocate for R1, 
Shri Ameet Dutta, Advocate for 
Shri Vikarm Unni, Advocate for R2 to R7)   
 
 
This Commercial Appeal (COMAP) is filed under Section 
13 (1A) of the Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and 
Commercial Appellate Division of the High Courts Act, 2015 read 
with Order XLIII Rule 1 (r) of the CPC, 1908, praying to (1) Set 
aside the common order dated 22nd October 2020, dismissing 
I.A.Nos.2/2019, 3/2019 and 4/2019, in Com.O.S.No.362/2019, 
passed by the learned LXXXIII Additional City Civil and Sessions 
Judge (Commercial Court) (CCH-84), Bengaluru, produced 
4 
 
herewith at Annexure-A, and consequently allow I.A.No.2/2019, 
I.A.No.3/2019 and I.A.No.4/2019 in Com.O.S.No.362/2019; (2) 
Grant costs of these proceedings to the Appellant and (iii) Grant 
such other and further reliefs. 
This appeal having been heard and reserved for Judgment, 
coming on for pronouncement of Judgment, this day, Chief 
Justice delivered the following: 
JUDGMENT 
 
 
By this appeal under sub-section (1A) of Section 13 of the 
Commercial Courts Act, 2015 read with Rule 1(r) of Order XLIII of 
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short ‘the CPC’), the 
appellants who are the original plaintiffs have taken an exception 
to the Judgment and order dated 22nd October, 2020 passed by 
the learned LXXXIII Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge 
(CCH-84) at Bengaluru in the commercial original suit 
No.362/2019.     By the said Judgment and order, Interlocutory 
Applications (IA) II, III, and IV filed by the appellants under Rules 
1 and 2 of Order XXXIX of CPC, for grant of temporary injunction 
have been rejected.  
 
2. 
There are mainly four agreements, which are subject 
matter of Commercial Original Suit No.362 of 2019.   The first one 
is an Exit Agreement dated 31st July, 2019, the second 
5 
 
agreement is the Executive Employment Agreement dated 1st 
April 2018, the third agreement is the Shareholders Agreement 
executed on 12th January, 2018 and the fourth agreement is the 
Share Subscription Agreement  executed on 12th January, 2018.  
These agreements have been executed by and between the first 
appellant company and the first respondent.  There are separate 
agreements of employment executed between the first appellant 
and second to fourth respondents. 
 
3. 
The first appellant Kenrise Media Pvt Ltd., is a private 
limited company incorporated under the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013.   The second appellant is a founder and 
the Chief Executive Officer of the first appellant and the third 
appellant is also a founder and the Editor-in-Chief of the Online 
News Platform of the first appellant.   It is stated that the fourth 
appellant is also a founder of the first appellant company.  
 
4. 
The first appellant runs and operates an online news 
platform known as “The Ken” which is accessible and available to 
the public at www.the-ken.com.  It is also available by way of 
mobile application on android and IOS operating systems.    It is 
claimed that “The Ken” is an online publication which publishes 
6 
 
news 
stories 
pertaining 
to 
the 
technology, 
start-ups, 
developments in the healthcare sector and on other topics.   The 
“The Ken” publishes only one story every weekday.   It is claimed 
that as a result of limited number of stories published by the first 
appellant, a lot of time, energy and editorial supervision is 
required on publication of each story. It is claimed that the news 
stories published by the first appellant are well researched, 
product of independent skill and labour as well as entirely unique.   
It is contended that “The Ken” which was launched in the year 
2016 has generated a significant and unquestionable values 
amongst its readers.   It is claimed that “The Ken” is well 
respected 
by 
various 
business 
leaders, 
policy 
makers, 
professionals, organizations etc. 
 
5. 
It is stated in the plaint that the first respondent (original 
first defendant) was a co-founder of the first appellant along with 
the second to fourth appellants.   According to the case of the 
appellants, the second respondent (second defendant) was 
employed as a staff writer with the first appellant from 19th March, 
2018 to 12th July, 2019.  It is further alleged that the third 
respondent (3rd defendant) was employed by the first appellant as 
7 
 
a staff writer between 7th February, 2019 and 6th August, 2019.   
Similarly, the fourth respondent (4th defendant) was employed as 
a staff writer by the first appellant from 13th August, 2018 to 24th 
July, 2019.  
 
6. 
It is claimed in the plaint that the news platform of “The 
Ken” is a radical departure from the business model adopted by 
the traditional news media.    The first appellant does not carry or 
publish any advertisements on its website and it makes available 
its news stories to the public on a subscription based model.   
The readers who are interested in reading and having access to 
the news articles published by the first appellant have to 
subscribe to the first appellants’ portal.   The first appellant has 
various plans such as free plan where a reader who does not pay 
only receives four news articles per month without subscription.   
Another plan is a quarterly paid subscription plan and there is an 
annual subscription plan as well.   Upon payment of subscription 
fees, the readers have guaranteed to access to the news stories 
published, archives of the portal of the first appellant consisting of 
more than 846 articles.  
 
8 
 
7. 
It is claimed that the first appellant was able to compile the 
information pertaining to its customers, subscribers and business 
vendors.  It is claimed that the first appellant was able to analyze 
its financial revenue and forecast its projected growth on such 
basis. This is how, the internal functioning of the first appellant 
resulted in generation of compilation of various categories of 
confidential information that was proprietary to it.  It is alleged that 
such information was confidential and exclusive product of the 
first appellant which had a strict protocol for internal sharing of 
such information and for protection against unwarranted 
disclosure of the same.   It is claimed that on 12th January, 2018, 
a Share Subscription Agreement (for short ‘SSA’) and 
Shareholder’s Agreement (for short ‘SA’) were executed to which 
the appellants and the first respondent are the parties.  The said 
agreements record the investment made by the first respondent 
in the first appellant company. In the said agreements, various 
representations and warranties offered to the investors were set 
out and the first appellant and its promoters including the second 
to fourth appellants and the first respondent were required to 
indemnify the investors for any damages or loss occasioned to 
them.    Under the SA, the mutual rights and obligations of the 
9 
 
shareholders vis-à-vis each other as well as the first appellant 
were set out.   One of the important clauses therein was that the 
second to fourth appellants as well as the first respondent  
agreed and acknowledged not to compete with the first appellant 
or solicit its employees, customers or vendors from leaving the 
first appellant for a period of thirty six months from the date of 
ceasing to be either an employee of the first appellant or 
shareholders of the first appellant.  This is provided in clause 16 
of the SA. Clause No.23 of the said agreement provides for 
protection of the confidential information belonging to the first 
appellant.   Clause 24 of Schedule-IV of the said agreement 
defines confidential information.  
  
8. 
An Executive Employment Agreement (for short ‘EEA’) was 
executed between first respondent and the first appellant on 1st 
April, 2018.  Similar separate EEAs were executed between the 
first appellant and second to fourth appellants.  As far as the EEA 
entered into between the first appellant and first respondent is 
concerned, it was provided therein that the first respondent will 
continue to be employed with the first appellant for a minimum 
period of four years from the date of the agreement.   Clause (6) 
10 
 
thereof required that all the works carried out by the first 
respondent are the exclusive works of the first appellant during 
his employment.  It was provided that the first respondent shall 
not associate himself with any competing business.   The first 
respondent had agreed and acknowledged that he would not 
divulge or commercially exploit in any manner the confidential 
information of the first appellant.     Under clause (11), it was 
specifically provided that the first respondent had agreed that any 
breach of terms of the employment agreement by him would 
result into irreparable loss and injury to the first appellant and 
would entitle the first appellant to seek liquidated damages to the 
extent of rupees fifty lakhs.  
 
9. 
As the second to fourth respondents were regular 
employees of the first appellant as ‘staff writers’, the Employment 
Agreements were executed by the first respondent with each of 
them on 27th February, 2018, 7th February, 2019 and 12th July, 
2018 respectively.   It is provided in the said employment 
agreements that the second to fourth respondents would protect 
the confidential information belonging to the first appellant.   
There is also a clause in the said agreements under which, 
11 
 
second to fourth respondents were prevented from soliciting the 
services, business, know-how and the association customers, 
employees, business associates and vendors of the first 
appellant.   The agreements provide that all the works done by 
the second to fourth respondents will be exclusive works 
belonging to the first appellant. 
 
10. 
It is alleged in the plaint that the first respondent created an 
unprofessional work environment.    Instead of terminating the 
services of the first respondent, for facilitating cordial relationship 
and with a view to ensure a productive work environment, the 
appellants were committed to facilitate a clean exit for the first 
respondent.  It is alleged that there were negotiations between 
the appellant and the first respondent regarding the terms and 
conditions of the exit of the first respondent.  It is alleged that the 
first respondent delayed the same beyond 12th July, 2019, as he 
wanted to ensure that he is entitled to the benefits under SA and  
SSA.   Eventually, the exit agreement was arrived at between the 
appellant and the first respondent on 31st July, 2019.    The terms 
and condition of the said exit agreement which came into force 
with effect from 31st July, 2019 have been set out in the plaint. 
12 
 
 
11. 
It is pointed out that the second, third and fourth 
respondents resigned from their employment with the first 
appellant.    The manner in which they tendered resignations is 
also set out in the plaint.    There are other factual assertions 
made in the plaint setting out the sequence of events and the 
alleged breaches committed by the second to fourth respondents.   
It is alleged that the time of the resignations tendered by the 
second to fourth respondents is very significant, as, during the 
said period, negotiations for exit of the first respondent were in 
progress.   It is pointed out that it was the first respondent who 
announced the resignations of the second to fourth respondents 
on the Twitter platform even before the same were submitted.   
The specific allegation in the plaint is that the first to fourth 
respondents have actively colluded with each other and while 
exiting the first appellant, they took with them the confidential 
information and business know-how of the first appellant.   It is 
alleged that the said respondents made an unauthorized use of 
such information for setting up of a new venture by name “The 
Morning Context” which is similar to the first appellant’s news 
platform “The Ken”.  It is alleged that the respondents, in their 
13 
 
pre-planned exit from the first appellant have committed 
premeditated conspiracy to defraud the first appellant by 
expropriating its confidential information.    It is pointed out that 
the new news portal by the name “The Morning Context” was 
launched on 23rd September, 2019 and on the website of the said 
portal, it was disclosed that the second to fourth respondents are 
its founders.    It is pointed out in the plaint that the said website 
and domain names were registered as early as on 12th June, 
2019.   It is pointed out that on 25th September, 2019, the first 
respondent made an announcement that he would be joining 
“The Morning Context” as its Chief Editor which would indicate 
that steps for setting up of “The Morning Context” were taken as 
early as on March 2019 itself, that is five months prior to the exit 
of the first respondent from the first appellants “The Ken”.   It is 
alleged that said “The Morning Context” portal was operating on 
the same business model as that of the first appellant.   It is 
pointed out that out of nine writers associated with new venture 
i.e., “The Morning Context” as published on the website of the 
new venture of the first to fourth respondents, five writers were 
already associated with the first appellant.  
 
14 
 
12. 
At this stage, we must note here that the sixth respondent 
(Slowform Media Pvt. Ltd) is a private limited company which is 
running the portal “The Morning Context” and the seventh 
respondent is the wife of the first respondent.   It is pointed out 
that the fifth respondent (Slowform Media PTE Ltd) is a company 
constituted in Singapore under the laws of Singapore on 24th July, 
2019 of which, the seventh respondent who is the wife of the first 
respondent is shown as its Director.   It is alleged that in fact, 
there were only two shareholders of that company at a time 
namely, the second and seventh respondents.   It is alleged that 
initial directors of the sixth respondent company were the  second 
and fourth respondents. 
   
13. 
In paragraph 46 of the plaint it is alleged that the first 
respondent had illegally disseminated confidential information 
belonging to the first appellant with a view to commercially exploit 
the said information.    Reliance is placed on the email dated 27th 
March, 2019 addressed by the first respondent from his 
professional company email account (ashish@the-ken.com) to 
his personal email id (kmishra.ashish@gmail.com) a copy of 
which 
was 
forwarded 
to 
his 
wife’s 
email 
id 
15 
 
(priyabubna2@gmail.com).  The said email bears the subject 
“important” and also contains an attachment titled “Daily Total”.   
The said attachment is an excel spreadsheet which contains 
details of every news story published by the first appellant, the 
amount of revenue generated by each story, the sources of 
subscribers, the choice of subscription plans and the payment 
methods used.  It is alleged that the “Daily Total” contained 
details of all the corporate customers of the first appellant with 
revenue figures as well as the details of the patrons who were 
supporting the first appellant.  It is alleged that the contents of the 
said attachment are at the very heart of the first appellant’s 
operation and management and that disclosure of such 
information would provide a blueprint for any other organization 
which is attempting to set up a similar subscription-lead business.    
It is stated that the first respondent had shared the said document 
with his wife with an intention of further dissemination.   Another 
email was sent by the first respondent to his wife, the seventh 
respondent, offering advice to her (seventh respondent) on 
setting up of a subscription based news platform and the said 
advice is based on his experience and learnings with the first 
appellant.  It is alleged that first and seventh respondents were 
16 
 
conspiring from April, 2019 to set up “The Morning Context”. 
Various other alleged incidents of disclosure of the confidential 
information by the first respondent have been set out in the plaint.  
 
14. 
It is stated that a screenshot of an archived post dated 30th 
August, 2019 lists the first respondent as an author of ‘The 
Morning Context’.  On 30th September, 2019, the first respondent 
made an announcement on his twitter account regarding his first 
article published on “The Morning Context” portal in which he has 
stated that the said story took months to complete, which means 
that the said article was written by the first respondent before his 
exit from the first appellant.     It is stated that the first respondent 
had committed breaches of various clauses of the aforesaid 
agreements and revealed the confidential information exclusively 
belonging to the first appellant which has been wholly 
expropriated  by him by diverting it into the competitive entities of 
the first appellant, in violation of the terms of the agreement.   The 
details of the breaches made by the first to fourth respondents 
are set out in the plaint.    It is alleged that the fifth and sixth 
respondents have illegally received and continued to make use 
and exploit such confidential and proprietary information of the 
17 
 
first appellant.  It is also alleged that rapid resignation of second 
to fourth respondents within a short period coincided with the exit 
of the first respondent. It is alleged that the second to fourth 
respondents did not honour the contractual obligations in their 
respective employment agreements and they colluded with the 
first respondent.   
 
15. 
At this stage, it is necessary to refer to the prayers made by 
the first appellant in the plaint which read thus:  
 
“(A) 
Of Declaration, declaring the defendant No.1 to be in 
breach of his contractual obligations owed to Plaintiff 
No.1 in terms of Exit Agreement (executed on 
31.07.2019), 
Executive 
Employment 
Agreement 
(executed on 01.04.2018), Share Holders Agreement 
(executed 
on 
12.01.2018) 
and 
the 
Share 
Subscription Agreement (executed on 12.01.2018; 
 
(B) 
Of Declaration, declaring the Defendant No. 2, 3 and 
4 to be in breach of their respective Employment 
Agreements with Plaintiff No.1;  
 
(C) 
Of Mandatory Injunction, restraining the Defendant 
No.1 from competing (whether directly or indirectly) 
with Plaintiff No.1 by engaging in and/or conducting 
any business that is similar to that of the Plaintiff 
18 
 
No.1, in terms of clause 2.4 of Exit Agreement and 
clause 16 of SHA; 
 
(D) 
Of Mandatory injunction, restraining the Defendants 
(including their members, employees, affiliates, 
representatives, agents and any other persons acting 
under or through them) from utilizing, disclosing or 
commercially exploiting the confidential information 
of the Plaintiff – including its unique analytical 
methods, client and customer lists and contact 
information, pricing and other client data, trade 
secrets, inventions, processes, formulas, source and 
object codes, know-how, designs and techniques 
and other data and literary work generated by the 
Plaintiff;  
 
(E) 
Of Mandatory Injunction, restraining the Defendants 
(including their members, office bearers, affiliates, 
representatives, followers, agents and any other 
persons acting under their instructions) from soliciting 
the 
services 
and/or 
business 
of 
employees, 
customers, vendors and business associates of 
Plaintiff No.1; 
 
(F) 
Directing the Defendant No.1 to return a sum of 
Rs.30,00,000/- to Plaintiff No.2, 3 and 4 (along with 
permissible interest under Interest Act, 1979) from 31 
July 2019 until the eventual repayment;  
 
19 
 
(G) 
Of Damages, directing the Defendant No.1 to pay a 
sum of Rs.50,00,000/- towards liquidated damages 
owed to the Plaintiff;  
 
(H) 
Of Damages, directing the Defendant No. 5 and 6 to 
pay a sum of Rs.50,00,000/-, jointly and severally as 
damages owned to Plaintiff No.1; 
 
(I) 
Directing the Defendant No. 5 and 6 to pay a sum of 
Rs.1,00,00,000/- joint and severally to Plaintiff No.1, 
for 
the 
unauthorized 
use 
of 
Plaintiff 
No.1’s 
confidential information”.   
  
 16. 
IA-II was filed by the appellants seeking temporary 
injunction restraining the first to seventh respondents from 
utilizing, disclosing or commercially exploiting the confidential 
information of the first appellant.     IA-III was filed by the 
appellants praying for temporary injunction restraining the 
respondents from soliciting the services and/or business of 
employees, customers, vendors and business associates of the 
first appellant.   IA-IV has been filed by the appellants seeking 
temporary injunction restraining the first respondent from 
engaging or conducting any business that is similar to that of the 
first appellant, in violation of the terms of the Share Holders 
20 
 
Agreement dated 12th January, 2018 and Exit Agreement dated 
31st July, 2019. 
  
17. 
Separate statement of objections were filed to the said IA’s 
by the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth respondents.    
Various allegations made in the plaint have been denied and 
several preliminary objections have been raised in the statement 
of objections.    
  
       
         
GIST OF SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANTS: 
 
 
18. 
The learned counsel appearing for the appellants has taken 
us through the pleadings and various contentions raised in the 
plaint.   He submitted that the first appellant had successfully 
created first and the only subscription based business of a news 
platform in India.   For that purpose, it had to develop a range of 
unique and proprietary business plans and strategies to ensure 
success.   The management and internal functioning of the first 
appellant resulted in the generation and compilation of various 
categories of confidential information that was proprietary to it 
which is a direct and exclusive product of its independent labour, 
skill and hard work.   Reliance was placed on the confidentiality 
21 
 
obligations on the part of the first respondent in the matter of 
SHA, employment agreement and exit agreement.   The 
confidentiality obligations have been set out in clause-9 of the 
employment agreements of the second to fourth respondents.   
The learned counsel urged that the first to fourth respondents 
continued to be bound by their confidentiality obligations even 
after their association with the first appellant came to an end.   He 
pointed out that the fifth to seventh respondents, though not 
parties to the agreements, also owe an obligation under common 
law to the first appellant not to disclose and commercially exploit 
the confidential information of the first appellant.   He relied upon 
a decision of this Court in the case of V.V. Sivaram and others –
vs- Foseco India Limited, Pune1. 
 
19. 
The learned counsel appearing for the appellants 
addressed on the issue of the nature of confidential information.   
He pointed out that the first appellant had compiled information 
pertaining to its customers, subscribers and business vendors.   
The said information was collected to enable the first appellant to 
analyze its financial revenue generated out of its stories and 
forecast its projected growth. The said compilation of the 
                                                           
1 2005 SCC OnLine Kar 595 
22 
 
information was stored on excel sheet (Daily Total).    We may 
note here that the print out of said excel sheet is produced before 
the Court in a sealed cover and a redacted version is produced 
along with the plaint.    He pointed out that the nature of the 
confidential details incorporated in the excel sheet which contains 
sensitive information about the revenue generated by each story, 
the sources of its subscribers, payment methods used and the 
details of all the corporate customers with the revenue figures 
and details of all the patrons who are supporting the first 
appellant’s news platform.    The excel sheet contains all the 
information relating to the business of the first appellant right from 
the year 2016.    It is submitted by the learned counsel appearing 
for the appellants that the information is not only sensitive but it 
will also provide a blueprint for any other organization that is 
attempting to carry on the same business.  The information stored 
can be used to discern the type of stories that generate high 
revenue, the category and names of the companies and potential 
customers who are interested about it etc.   Reliance was placed 
on a decision of the Apex Court in the case of Eastern Book 
Company and others –vs- D.B. Modak and another2.   The 
                                                           
2 (2008) 1 SCC 1 
23 
 
learned counsel appearing for the appellants also pressed into 
service the decision of this Court in the case of M/S. Pearson 
India Education Service Private Limited –vs- M/S. New Rubric 
Solutions LLP3. 
     
20. 
The learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the 
said document was made available only to the founders of the 
first appellant and an access was given on clear understanding 
that the confidential information contained therein would be 
protected and the founders would guard the same against any 
unwarranted or unauthorized disclosure.    He submitted that 
even the first respondent in his pleadings has categorically 
admitted that the information about the said document was 
important for him to use it in the negotiations for his exit.    He 
pointed out that even the seventh respondent admitted of having 
received the said excel sheet (Daily Total).   He urged that the 
transfer of the said document by the first respondent outside 
organization of the first appellant clearly amounts to breach of 
contractual obligations to maintain confidentiality.   He urged that 
the document was transferred to the seventh respondent to use 
the same as a springboard in setting up of a similar portal 
                                                           
3 ILR 2016 KAR 2766 
24 
 
namely, ‘The Morning Context’ which is run by the fifth and sixth 
respondents.   Reliance was placed by the counsel for the 
appellants on a decision of this Court in the case of Imphase 
Power Technologies Private Limited –vs- ABB India Limited4. 
 
21. 
He pointed out that the first respondent, in his capacity as a 
founder of the first appellant, obtained the confidential information 
and data about female founders of startup business who have 
raised funding from external investors from an external consultant 
and thereafter, instead of sharing the said information with 
second to fourth appellants, the first respondent shared the same 
solely with the second respondent alone on the ground that the 
second respondent did not have access to such information.   It is 
pointed out that on 23rd May, 2019, one Ms. Roshni Nair, an 
employee of the first appellant, circulated a proposal for a news 
article in the form of email and the same was received by the first 
respondent and by second to fourth appellants.   The proposal 
was approved by the appellants.   Thereafter, on 31st July 2019, 
said Ms. Roshni Nair resigned from her position with the first 
appellant.    Thereafter, she joined ‘The Morning Context’ in 
which, a similar article under the title “How WikiMedia India went 
                                                           
4 2016 SCC OnLine Kar 6931.  
25 
 
Bust” was published on ‘The Morning Context’ platform on 4th 
November, 2019.   The learned counsel submitted that the  
second to fourth respondents have admitted of having 
downloaded confidential information belonging to the first 
appellant into their official work laptops and thereafter, forwarded 
the same to their personal email id’s and thereafter they make 
use of the said information for their personal use. 
 
22. 
The learned counsel appearing for the appellants invited 
our attention to clause-16 of SHA under which, the first 
respondent  agreed that he would not solicit or influence or 
attempt to influence any clients or customers to direct their 
purchase of products or services to himself or to any competitor 
of the first appellant.   His submission is that under said clause, 
he agreed not to damage the business relationship of the first 
appellant with its customers or clients. He had also agreed not to 
solicit or influence any persons engaged in employment with the 
first appellant to terminate his or her employment with the first 
appellant.   Further, the first respondent was under an obligation 
not to make any attempt to employ or assist anyone else to 
employ any persons engaged in the employment with the first 
26 
 
appellant.   By inviting our attention to the clause 2.5 of the exit 
agreement, he submitted that the aforesaid clauses continue to 
operate even after the exit of the first respondent.   He submitted 
that from 31st July, 2019 (from the date on which the first 
respondent exited the first appellant), he had agreed not to solicit 
and influence the customers and employees of the first appellant 
for a period of thirty six months.   He submitted that in the 
respective employment agreements of second to 
fourth 
appellants, they were under an obligation not to solicit or 
influence any persons engaged in employment with the first 
appellant to terminate his/her employment.  
 
23. 
The learned counsel urged that the first to fourth 
respondents have decided to surreptitiously set up the fifth and 
sixth respondents and indulged in inter se solicitation for leaving 
the employment of the first appellant.    His submission is that the 
resignation of second to fourth respondents was announced by 
the first respondent on his twitter account even prior to their 
official resignations.  He submitted that admittedly, the first 
respondent diverted the job applications sent by Ms. Anahita 
Mukherji to his personal email id and he did not share the same 
27 
 
with the second to fourth appellants.     His submission is that 
now, the same person is working in ‘The Morning Context’.   He 
would submit that non-solicitation clauses are not hit by Section 
27 of the Contract Act.  
 
24. 
He submitted that though the first respondent officially 
joined ‘The Morning Context’ on 26th September, 2019, in his 
tweet dated 23rd September, 2019, he has confirmed that one Ms. 
Priya Nagvekar had assisted in design and formatting the website 
of ‘The Morning Context’.   He pointed out that very fact that on 
30th September 2019, the first respondent made announcement 
regarding his first article to be published in ‘The Morning Context’ 
would indicate that he was working on the said article during the 
course of his employment with the first appellant.  
 
25. 
The learned counsel appearing for the appellants further 
submitted that on 21st July, 2019, the seventh respondent, who is 
the wife of the first respondent, incorporated in the fifth 
respondent.   However, after the second respondent left the first 
appellant and took over as the Director of the fifth respondent, 
she stepped down as the director and shareholder of the said 
company.    However, the seventh respondent again rejoined the 
28 
 
fifth respondent as a Director and she was appointed to the Board 
of Directors of the sixth respondent, after institution of the present 
suit.   Thus, it is clear that the fifth respondent has been 
incorporated by the seventh respondent at the behest of the first 
respondent and the seventh respondent walked out of the sixth 
respondent immediately after second to fourth respondents 
resigned from the first appellant. Hence, the learned counsel 
appearing for the appellants urged that this was a fit case where 
all the three interlocutory applications (IA-II, III, and IV) ought to 
have been allowed by the Commercial Court. 
GIST OF THE SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS: 
 
26. 
The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the first 
respondent also made detailed submissions. He invited our 
attention to the various findings recorded by the learned trial 
Judge. He submitted that it is false to say that the first appellant 
was successful in creating the first subscription based business 
news platform in India. He submitted that there is no material to 
substantiate the said contention and he gave example of several 
such existing news platforms in the world and submitted that they 
are the similar models as that of the first appellant and that the 
model of the first appellant is not at all unique. He submitted that 
29 
 
it is not pointed out by the appellants as to what confidential 
aspects of the first appellant’s alleged unique business model 
were revealed by the first respondent to the detriment of the 
appellants.    The documents on which the appellants are relying 
upon are either available on the public domain or are within the 
first respondent’s personal knowledge from his years of 
professional experience.     
 
27. 
He submitted that as held by the Delhi High Court, in the 
case of M/S. Stellar Information Technology Private Limited –
vs- Mr. Rakesh Kumar and others5,  the information which is 
already available in the public domain cannot be considered as a 
confidential information and no injunction for use of such 
information can be issued.   Inviting our attention to the document 
No.41(Daily Total), he pointed out how the information contained 
therein is available on the first appellant’s website especially, the 
names of reflected in sheet numbers 1 and 2.   In fact, the first 
appellant’s web portal, as it was previously, was reflecting the 
names of the first appellant’s company’s patrons.   He pointed out 
that sheet number 3 of the excel sheet was only an accounting 
document which does not contains any creative or unique 
                                                           
5 (2016) 234 DLT 114 = 2016 SCC OnLine Del 4812 
30 
 
arrangement of data.    He submitted that in any case, the first 
respondent being the managing editor and co-founder of the first 
appellant had an access to the said data.   He submitted that the 
details of the shares held by the sponsors of the first appellant 
can be easily procured from the public domain.   He pointed out 
that the sixth respondent has not approached a single corporate 
client listed in “The Daily Total”.   He submitted that the seventh 
respondent who is the wife of the first respondent is a Chartered 
Accountant.   He stated that the first respondent shared the 
revenue patterns of growth of the first appellant with the seventh 
respondent, as she was guiding the first appellant for negotiating 
the value of shares of the first respondent in the first appellant. 
  
28. 
He submitted that the particulars reflected in the excel 
sheets (the Daily Total) are empty figures not beneficial to any 
individual media industry.   He submitted that the document 
No.42 is an email communication dated 10th April, 2019 
addressed to the seventh respondent by the first respondent 
which does not contain any confidential information of the first 
appellant.   The said email merely advises the seventh 
respondent how to go about with setting up and operating a 
31 
 
network.   He submitted that the seventh respondent had 
intended to start a blog on pregnancy where to be parents and 
the parents would be educated on parenthood.   His submission 
is that the contents of the email have been misinterpreted by the 
appellants as the said email does not even mention the word 
‘subscription based news platform’.  
 
29. 
Referring to the document No.43, the learned counsel 
appearing for the first respondent urged that the said email dated 
30th July, 2019 only contains the details received by the first 
respondent on behalf of 2nd respondent from an external agency 
called ‘Venture Intelligence’.   He submitted that the first 
respondent, in his personal capacity, has shared and provided 
the said information to the second respondent to enable her to 
write an article.   He submitted that the information or data 
provided by the Venture Intelligence was readily available to 
anyone. 
 
30. 
As regards the document No.45, he submitted that Ms. 
Anahita Mukherji was never an employee of the first appellant.   
As regards the document No.49, he contended that the said 
document is only a pitch for an article of Ms. Roshni Nair’s which 
32 
 
was sent to the appellants. He submitted that eventually, the 
article was published by Ms. Roshni Nair on ‘The Morning 
Context’.   Though the appellants have tried to allege an 
infringement of their copyright, they have not impleaded the 
author of the said article as a party to the suit.    He urged that 
none of the documents relied upon by the appellants contain any 
confidential information exclusively belonging to the first 
appellant.  Moreover, the appellants have failed to prove that they 
have suffered an injury and are adversely affected by the alleged 
use of the said information by any of the respondents.     
 
31. 
While addressing the Court on the prayers made for 
injunction against soliciting the first appellant’s employees and 
customers, the learned counsel appearing for the first respondent 
relied upon the provisions of Section 27 of the Indian Contract 
Act, 1872 (for short, ‘the Contract Act’).   He submitted that no 
service covenant can be extended after the termination of service 
by the appellant.    Relying upon a decision of the Apex Court in 
the case of Superintendence Company of India (P) Ltd –vs- 
Krishan Murgai6,  he submitted that unlike an agreement which 
is of a goodwill of business type of contract, post service terminal 
                                                           
6 (1981) 2 SCC 246 
33 
 
restrictive covenants are void as per Section 27 of the Contract 
Act.    He pointed out that by email, the second respondent 
forwarded his resignation on 28th June, 2019 to the first appellant 
which indicates that the resignation was on account of conduct of 
the appellants.   In fact, it is based on the decision taken by the 
appellants themselves.   He pointed out that the third respondent 
was asked to go out by the first appellant’s company when the 
second appellant made a phone call to the first appellant on 11th 
June, 2019.    There was a heated exchange of emails between 
fourth respondent and the appellants prior to his quitting.   He 
submitted that the first respondent made an announcement on his 
twitter account on 27th June, 2019 endorsing the abilities and 
talent of the third and fourth respondents, with a view to create an 
alternative opportunity to both the respondents.   He submitted 
that ‘The Morning Context’ was launched on 23rd September, 
2019 and the resignations were tendered by second to fourth 
respondents during June and July, 2019 respectively. 
 
32. 
As regards Ms. Roshni Nair and Ms. Anahita Mukherjee, 
the learned Senior Counsel submitted that both of them were not 
at all employees of the first appellant.    
34 
 
33. 
As regards injunction sought against the first respondent 
from competing against the first appellant, he submitted that 
clause 2.4 of the Exit Agreement not only aims at binding the 1st 
respondent from pursuing his career for an arbitrarily long 
duration of three years, but it also seeks to restrict him from doing 
business in any part of the world.  He submitted that the said 
clause is illegal.   He would also submit that the first respondent 
has not participated in the establishment of competing business 
and he is merely an employee of the sixth respondent and he is 
working in the capacity of a content writer.   He submitted that the 
appellants are relying on the contents of a twitter posting dated 5th 
December, 2019 by the first respondent to attribute conspiracy.    
He submitted that the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case 
of Affle Holdings Pte Ltd., -vs- Saurabh Singh and others7 will 
not help the appellants. He submitted that an amount of 
Rs.30,00,000/- paid to the first respondent was solely as a 
consideration towards the purchase of his 907 shares in the first 
appellant and this amount does not include the consideration for 
the first respondent’s obligation not to compete.    Lastly, he 
submitted that a prima facie case is not established by the 
                                                           
7 2015 SCC OnLine Del 6765 
35 
 
appellants.   In any case, the very fact that the monitory relief of a 
decree in the sum of Rs.80,00,000/- is claimed by the appellants 
towards damages shows that the loss allegedly caused to the 
appellants can be always compensated in terms of money. 
  
34. 
The learned counsel appearing for the second to seventh 
respondents submitted that the materials on record show that 
second respondent was forced to resign.   As regards the third 
respondent, it was submitted that he did not resign but he was 
effectively terminated.   He submitted that in fact, a situation was 
created under which, the fourth respondent was pushed against 
the wall to leave the first appellant.   In fact, as regards fourth 
respondent, the second appellant himself informed him that the 
notice period of thirty days has been waived.   It was submitted 
that there is nothing placed on record to show that there was any 
solicitation of the second to fourth respondents by the first 
respondent.   He submitted that there is no privity of contract 
between the appellants and fifth to seventh respondents.   It was 
submitted that the post employment negative covenants are 
unenforceable under law and, therefore, clause 11 of non-
compete and non-solicitation in the employment agreements of 
36 
 
the second to fourth respondents will not survive after their 
employment with the first appellant came to an end.   He placed 
reliance on a decision of the Apex Court in the case of Percept 
D’Mark (India) Pvt. Ltd –vs- Zaheer Khan and another8. 
 
35. 
It was submitted that the term ‘profession’ is absent in the 
proviso to Section 27 of the Contract Act and, therefore, 
notwithstanding sale of good-will, a professional can continue his 
profession anywhere as per his choice.   It was submitted that the 
first respondent is a professional journalist employed by the fifth 
respondent and he does not have any equity holding in fifth and 
sixth respondents.   Reliance was placed on a decision of the 
Delhi High Court in the case of Arvinder Singh and Another –
vs- Lal Pathlabs Pvt Ltd and others9.  Reliance was also placed 
on the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of 
Independent News Service Pvt. Ltd –vs- Sucherita Kukreti10. 
 
36. 
Reliance was placed upon various illustrations such as 
‘Business Standard’, ‘Wall Street Journal’ etc to show that the 
                                                           
8 (2006) 4 SCC 227 
9 2015 SCC OnLine Del 8337= (2015) 149 DRJ 88 
10 2019 SCC OnLine Del 6756 
37 
 
business model of the first appellant is not a unique model as 
claimed by the appellants.  
 
37. 
It was submitted that there are no allegations made against 
the third and fourth respondents with regard to receipt, 
dissemination, transmission, disclosure, breach or misuse of the 
alleged confidential information of the first appellant.   He 
submitted that the allegation that the first respondent, in a 
clandestine manner forwarded the Netflix invitation to the second 
respondent is meaningless, as the second respondent himself 
directly received the said invitation from the Netflix.   As regards 
article of the second respondent dated 23rd October, 2019 titled 
‘Watershed Year for Women Let Startup in India’, it was 
submitted that the data used or shared with the second 
respondent does not belong to the appellant but it was shared by 
Venture Intelligence which is a third party and it was not a 
confidential data received by the first respondent from the first 
appellant.   He submitted that the first appellant cannot claim 
copyright in respect of Ms. Roshni Nair’s article.   He submitted 
that no copyright is attributable or claimed on a proposal, idea, 
topic or context.   It was submitted that the information which 
38 
 
claimed to be a confidential by the appellants is not at all 
confidential information. It was submitted that there is no 
conspiracy or collusion about the exit of the second to fourth 
respondents from the appellants, as their exit was based on 
totally different circumstances.    Lastly, it was submitted that in 
view of the fact that the damages have been claimed against all 
the respondents, any loss which may have been caused to the 
appellants can be compensated in terms of money.  
   
38. 
The learned counsel appearing for the appellants submitted 
that there is sufficient material on record to show that the first 
respondent was the brain behind incorporation of the fifth and 
sixth respondents.   He submitted that considering the nature of 
the business, an inference can be drawn that the sale of the 
shares of the founder (first respondent) would amount to the sale 
of founder’s good-will in the business of the first appellant.   
Therefore, it was submitted that the proviso to Section 27 of the 
Contract Act is not applicable.   
CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS: 
 
39. 
We have given careful consideration to the submissions.  
We have carefully perused the pleadings and the documents on 
39 
 
record.  We have also considered several decisions relied upon 
by rival parties. The first question which will have to be 
considered is about the breach of confidentiality.   For the 
purposes of deciding the said question, we will have to consider 
the issue what constitutes a confidential information.   A leading 
decision of the British Court on this aspect is in the case of Coco 
–vs- A.N. Clark (Engineers) Limited11 which is relevant for our 
consideration.  The High Court of Justice – Chancery Division 
was dealing a case where interlocutory injunction was sought 
against the defendants from misusing information communicated 
to them in confidence for the purposes of the joint venture.   In the 
said decision, his Lordship Justice Megarry dealt with what are 
the elements of confidential information.   The relevant portion of 
the said decision reads thus: 
  
 
“In my Judgment, three elements are normally 
required if, apart from contract, a case of breach of 
confidence is to succeed.   First, the information 
itself, in the words of Lord Greene, M.R. in the 
Saltman case on page 215, must “have the 
necessary quality of confidence about it”.   
Secondly, that information must have been 
                                                           
11 (1968) F.S.R. 415 
40 
 
imparted 
in 
circumstances 
importing 
an 
obligation of confidence.   Thirdly, there must be 
an unauthorized use of that information to the 
detriment of the party communicating it.   I must 
briefly examine each of these requirements in turn. 
  
 
First, the information must be of a confidential 
nature.   As Lord Greene said in the Saltman case at 
page 215 “something which is public property 
and public knowledge” cannot per se provide 
any foundation for proceedings for breach of 
confidence. 
However, 
confidential 
the 
circumstances of communication, there can be 
no breach of confidence in revealing to others 
something which is already common knowledge.   
But this must not be taken too far.  Something 
that has been constructed solely from materials 
in the public domain may possess the necessary 
quality of confidentiality: for something new and 
confidential may have been brought into being 
by the application of the skill and ingenuity of the 
human brain.   Novelty depends on the thing itself, 
and not upon the quality of its constituent parts.   
Indeed, often the more striking the novelty, the more 
commonplace its components, Mr. Mowbray demurs 
to the concept that some degree of originality is 
requisite.   But whether it is described as 
originality or novelty or ingenuity or otherwise, I 
41 
 
think there must be some product of the human 
brain which suffices to confer a confidential 
nature upon the information: and, expressed in 
those terms, I think that Mr. Mowbray accepts the 
concept. 
  
 
The difficulty comes, as Lord Denning, M.R. 
pointed out in the Seager case on page 931, when 
the information used is partly public and partly 
private; for then the recipient must somehow 
segregate the two and, although free to use the 
former, 
must 
take 
no 
advantage 
of 
the 
communication of the latter.   To this subject I must 
in due course return.   I must also return to a further 
point, namely, that where confidential information is 
communicated in circumstances of confidence the 
obligation thus created endures, perhaps in a 
modified form, even after all the information has 
been published or is ascertainable by the public; for 
the recipient must not use the communication as a 
spring-board (see the Seager case, page 931 and 
933).   I should add that, as shown by Cranleigh 
Precision Engineering Ltd. V. Bryant (1965) 1 W.L.R. 
1293, (1966) R.P.C. 81; the mere simplicity of an 
idea does not prevent it being confidential (see 
pages 1309 and 1310).   Indeed, the simpler an idea, 
the more likely it is to need protection. 
  
42 
 
 
The second requirement is that the information 
must have been communicated in circumstances 
importing an obligation of confidence.   However 
secret and confidential the information, there can be 
no binding obligation of confidence if that information 
is blurted out in public or is communicated in other 
circumstances which negative any duty of holding it 
confidential.   From the authorities cited to me, I have 
not been able to derive any very precise idea of what 
test is to be applied in determining whether the 
circumstances import an obligation of confidence.   
In the Argyll case at page 330, Ungoed-Thomas, J. 
concluded his discussion of the circumstances in 
which the publication of marital communications 
should be restrained as being confidential by saying 
“If this was a well-developed jurisdiction doubtless 
there would be guides and tests to aid in exercising 
it”.  In the absence of such guides or tests he then in 
effect concluded that part of the communications 
there in question would on any reasonable test 
emerge as confidential.   It may be that that hard-
worked creature, the reasonable man, may be 
pressed into service once more;  for I do not see why 
he should not labour in equity as well as at law.  It 
seems to me that if the circumstances are such that 
any reasonable man standing in the shoes of the 
recipient of the information would have realized that 
upon reasonable grounds the information was being 
43 
 
given to him in confidence, then this should suffice to 
impose upon him the equitable obligation of 
confidence.   In particular, where information of 
commercial or industrial value is given on a 
business-like basis and with some avowed common 
object in mind, such as a joint venture or the 
manufacture of articles by one party for the other, I 
would regard the recipient as carrying a heavy 
burden if he seeks to repel a contention that he was 
bound by an obligation of confidence:  see the 
Saltman case at page 216.   On that footing, for 
reasons that will appear, I do not think I need explore 
this head further.   I merely add that I doubt 
whether equity would intervene unless the 
circumstances are of sufficient gravity; equity 
ought not to be invoked merely to protect trivial 
tittle-tattle, however confidential. 
  
 
Thirdly, there must be an unauthorized use 
of the information to the detriment of the person 
communicating it.   Some of the statements of 
principle in the cases omit any mention of 
detriment; others include it.   At first sight, it 
seems that detriment ought to be present if 
equity is to be induced to intervene; but I can 
conceive of cases where a plaintiff might have 
substantial motives for seeking the aid of equity 
and yet suffer nothing which could fairly be 
44 
 
called detriment to him, as when the confidential 
information shows him in a favourable light but 
gravely injures some relation or friend of his 
whom he wishes to protect.   The point does not 
arise for decision in this case, for detriment to the 
plaintiff plainly exists.   I need therefore say no more 
than that although for the purposes of this case I 
have stated the proposition in the stricter form, I wish 
to keep open the possibility of the true proposition 
being that in the wider form”. 
 
(emphasis added) 
 
40. 
The learned Single Judge of Delhi High Court, in the case 
of Diljeet Titus, Advocate –vs- Alfred A. Adebare and others12 
quoted the observations made in the aforesaid decision of the 
British Court in the case of Coco (supra) with approval in 
paragraph-30 in his Judgment.  Thus, information cannot be 
termed as a confidential information merely because it is claimed 
by a party.   As observed in the case of Coco (supra), the 
information must “have the necessary quality of confidence about 
it”. If the information is a public property and is in public 
knowledge and such information is shared, it cannot be said it will 
lead to a breach of confidence.  Secondly, that information must 
                                                           
12 2006 SCC OnLine Del 551 = (2006) 130 DLT 330 
45 
 
have been imparted in circumstances importing an obligation of 
confidence. In a given case, the obligation of confidence need not 
be express but it can be implied. Thirdly, there must be an 
unauthorized use of that information to the detriment of the 
aggrieved party or to the detriment of a third party whom the 
aggrieved party wishes to protect.  It is in this context, we have to 
appreciate the factual aspects of the case on hand.  
  
41. 
The main contention of the appellants is that the 
information contained in the document (Excel sheets) styled as 
“Daily Total” contains confidential information.   The print out of 
the said document has been placed on record in a sealed 
envelope.    It is, therefore, necessary for this Court to firstly 
consider whether the said document styled as “Daily Total” 
contains any confidential information.    We have perused the 
said document styled as “Daily Total” (document No.41).   Firstly, 
it contains the names of patrons of the first appellant.   Another 
sheet contain the names of the corporate subscribers.   
Thereafter, the remaining sheets contain the names of the articles 
published on the first appellant’s news platform, the names of its 
authors, the number of subscriptions generated (renewal and 
46 
 
new) by the said articles and whether subscriptions were annual 
or quarterly.   The details of the revenue have been also 
incorporated in it.  Our attention is invited to a printout of web 
portal of the first appellant a copy of which is on page 678 in 
Volume-II of paper book.   It shows the names of some of the 
patrons of the first appellant.   Our attention is also invited to a 
copy of Restated  Shareholder’s Agreement  dated 23rd January, 
2018 which is on page 234 of volume-II of the paper book.  The 
names of existing and new investors along with their PAN 
numbers and addresses have been mentioned in Schedule-II to 
the said agreement.  In parts-C and D of Schedule-III to the said 
agreement, the share holding details of the first appellant on the 
execution date and effective date have been incorporated.   Parts 
C and D give the names of all the shareholders, the details of 
number of equity or preference shares held by them and 
percentage of their share holding.  Therefore, prima facie, the 
names of the promoters and the names of the patrons were 
readily available and the same were never intended to be kept 
confidential.  We must note here that the details such as the 
names of the existing and the new investors as well as the names 
of the shareholders and shareholding pattern are available in the 
47 
 
Restated Share Holder’s Agreement.  Therefore, these details 
cannot be said to be confidential at all.  Now the question is 
whether the other contents of the excel sheet i.e sheet No.3 
contains confidential document/information. 
 
42. 
 As narrated earlier, excel sheet No.3 contains the details 
regarding the articles published on ‘The Ken’, the names of the 
authors, the number of subscriptions generated etc.   As argued 
by the learned counsel appearing for the first respondent, the 
sheet No.3 is not a creative or unique arrangement of data so as 
to qualify for being called as works of the appellant under the 
Copyright Act, 1957.  There is nothing novel or creative about it.   
In any case, the first respondent being the Managing Editor of the 
Ken and as a co-founder, he was aware of all the details 
mentioned in sheet No.3.   Moreover, the names of the articles 
and the authors thereof are readily available on the website of the 
first appellant itself.   Under such circumstances, it is very difficult 
to arrive at a prima facie conclusion that the said excel sheets 
(Document 
No.41) 
contain 
any 
confidential 
information.   
Moreover, the appellants have not even prima facie demonstrated 
that any loss was caused to them due to the alleged act of the 
48 
 
first respondent of revealing alleged confidential information in the 
excel sheets (Daily Total). It is not pleaded that any detriment 
was caused to any third party whose interest the first appellant 
was interested in protecting. In any case, it is not pleaded and 
proved as to how the information was useful to any other media 
house or media industry. 
 
43. 
Moreover, there is no material placed on record by the 
appellants to prima facie establish that the model of online 
platform of the first appellant is unique.   The respondents have 
given instances of several news platforms based on subscription 
such as The Wall Street Journal, Business Standard, The 
Economic Times Prime, Bloomberg  Quint etc.   The appellants 
have not shown how their model is unique.  
  
44. 
The document No.42 is an email sent by the first 
respondent to seventh respondent.   As stated earlier, seventh 
respondent is the wife of the first respondent.  The said email 
contains advice to her on how to go about and setup and operate 
a blog on pregnancy where to be parents and the parents were to 
be educated on parenthood.   It is apparent from the said 
document that it does not refer to setting up of a ‘subscription 
49 
 
based news platform’.   Apart from that, the appellants have not 
pointed out which confidential information was supplied by the 
said email sent by the first respondent to seventh respondent 
over which, the first appellant had a control.  
 
45. 
We have perused the document No.43.  It contains email 
from Venture Intelligence addressed to the first respondent 
forwarding a copy of research previously done of women founded 
start ups.  This was forwarded by the first respondent to the 
second respondent by email.   It is not spelt out what right the first 
appellant can claim over the said information received from 
Venture Intelligence. It is not the case of the appellant that the 
first respondent had received the said information from ‘Venture 
Intelligence’ which was a confidential information.   
 
46. 
The document No.45 is an email sent by Ms. Anahita 
Mukherji to the first respondent.  The subject of email is “A 
framework for what I could cover for “The Ken”.  She has set out 
contours of what she could cover. At no point of time, said Ms. 
Anahita Mukherji was working with the first appellant.  Even she 
is not an employee of the ‘The Morning Context’.   It is not 
established that the first respondent has committed any breach of 
50 
 
any agreement.   The document No.49 is an email of one Ms. 
Roshni Nair which is a pitch of a story proposed to be written by 
her.  It is in a particular format.  It cannot be termed as a 
confidential information of the first appellant.   Added to that, said 
Ms. Roshni Nair who was the author of an article is not a party to 
the suit at all.  
 
47. 
The breach of confidentiality is also alleged against the 
other respondents.   The appellants are relying upon the 
allegation that the first respondent, in a clandestine manner, 
forwarded the Netflix invitation to the second respondent.  The 
second respondent has relied upon a separate invitation directly 
received by him on 15th July, 2019 for the Netflix event dated 24th 
July, 2019.   Hence, there cannot be any breach of confidentiality 
by sending invitation to the second respondent.  As pointed out 
earlier, the first respondent shared with the second respondent 
the data received from Venture Intelligence.  The second 
respondent’s article dated 23rd October, 2019 titled as ‘Watershed 
Year for Women Let Startup in India’ appears to be based on the 
data supplied by the Venture Intelligence and not the data 
available with the first appellant. 
51 
 
 
48. 
An article of Ms. Roshni Nair was published by the fifth 
respondent on 4th November, 2019.   When the said article was 
published, the contract of service between the first appellant and 
said Ms. Roshni Nair was not in existence, as the said contract 
came to an end on 31st July, 2019 by virtue of her resignation. 
Ms. Roshni Nair is the owner of the said work in the form of an 
article.  But she has not been made as party to the suit.   
 
49. 
Before going into the next contention, it is necessary for us 
to make a reference to Section 27 of the Contract Act, which 
reads thus:  
 
 
“27. Agreement in restraint of trade, void. - 
Every agreement by which any one is restrained 
from exercising a lawful profession, trade or 
business of any kind, is to that extent void. 
 
 
Exception 1.- Saving of agreement not to 
carry on business of which goodwill is sold. - 
One who sells the goodwill of a business may agree 
with the buyer to refrain from carrying on a similar 
business, within specified local limits, so long as the 
buyer, or any person deriving title to the goodwill 
from him, carries on a like business therein, provided 
52 
 
that such limits appear to the Court reasonable, 
regard being hard to the nature of the business”. 
 
50. 
The issue of interpretation of Section 27 of the Contract Act 
came up for consideration before the Apex Court in the case of 
Superintendence Company of India (supra).   A Bench of three 
Hon’ble Judges decided the said case.   The main Judgment was 
delivered by Justice V.D. Tulzapurkar for himself and for Justice 
N.L. Untwalia.  A concurring judgment was delivered by Justice 
A.P. Sen. In paragraphs 32 to 35 of the said decision, the Apex 
Court held thus: 
 “32. The agreement in question is not a “good 
will of business” type of contract and, therefore, 
does not fall within the exception. If the 
agreement on the part of the respondent puts a 
restraint even though partial, it was void, and, 
therefore, the contract must be treated as one 
which cannot be enforced. 
 
33. It is, however, argued that the test of the validity 
of a restraint, whether general or partial, is 
dependent on its reasonableness. It is pointed out 
that the distinction drawn by Lord Maclesfield 
in Mitchel v. Reynolds (1711) 1 PWms 181 : 24 ER 
347 between general and partial restraint, was 
53 
 
removed 
by 
the 
House 
of 
Lords 
in Nordenfelt v. Maxim 
Nordenfelt 
Guns 
& 
Ammunition Co. LR 1894 AC 535 : (1891-94) All ER 
Rep 
1 
According 
to 
the 
judgment 
of 
Lord 
Macnaghten in Nordenfelt case [LR 1894 AC 535 : 
(1891-94) All ER Rep 1] , the validity in either case 
was reasonableness with reference to particular 
circumstances. It is urged that all covenants in 
restraint of trade partial as well as general are prima 
facie void and they cannot be enforced, according to 
the test laid down by Lord Macnaghten in Nordenfelt 
case [LR 1894 AC 535 : (1891-94) All ER Rep 1] and 
accepted 
by 
the 
House 
of 
Lords 
in Mason v. Provident Clothing and Supply Co. 
Ltd. [LR 1913 AC 724 : 1911-13 All ER Rep 400 : 
109 LT 449] unless the test of reasonableness is 
testified. It is also urged that while an employer is not 
entitled to protect himself against competition per se 
on the part of an employee after the employment has 
ceased, he is entitled to protection of his proprietary 
interest viz. his trade secrets, if any, and a business 
connection. 
 
34. The test of reasonableness which now governs 
the common law doctrine of restraint of trade has 
been stated in CHITTY ON CONTRACTS, 23rd Edn., 
Vol. I, p. 867: 
54 
 
 
“While all restraints of trade to which the 
doctrine applied are prima facie unenforceable, 
all, whether partial or total, are enforceable, if 
reasonable.” 
 
35. A contract in restraint of trade is one by which a 
party restricts his future liberty to carry on his trade, 
business or profession in such manner and with such 
persons as he chooses. A contract of this class is 
prima facie void, but it becomes binding upon proof 
that the restriction is justifiable in the circumstances 
as being reasonable from the point of view of the 
parties themselves and also of the community”. 
(emphasis added) 
 
51. 
In the case of Percept D’Mark (supra), the Apex Court 
again dealt with the issue of interpretation of Section 27 of the 
Contract Act.   In paragraph-56 of the said Judgment, the Apex 
Court held thus: 
 
“56. The legal position with regard to post-
contractual covenants or restrictions has been 
consistent, unchanging and completely settled in our 
country. The legal position clearly crystallised in 
our country is 
that while construing the 
provisions of Section 27 of the Contract Act, 
neither the test of reasonableness nor the 
55 
 
principle of restraint being partial is applicable, 
unless it falls within express exception engrafted 
in Section 27”. 
(Emphasis added) 
 
52. 
Under section 27 of the Contract Act, an agreement which 
contains a restraint clause, restraining a person from exercising a 
lawful profession, trade or business of any kind is void.   There is 
one exception to the said rule.   The exception is in a case where 
a good-will of a business is sold.  Only in such a case, an 
agreement to restrain such person from carrying on a similar 
business can be enforced.    
 
53. 
In the instant case, as can be seen from the documents 
produced, a sum of rupees thirty lakhs received by the first 
respondent from the appellant is the value of 907 shares held by 
the first respondent in the first appellant’s company.  We have 
carefully perused the agreement of Record and Release dated 
26th July, 2019 (Exit Agreement) executed by and between the 
first appellant and the first respondent.   It is very clear from 
clause 2.1 (a) (i) of the said agreement that a sum of 
Rs.30,00,000/- (rupees thirty lakhs only) was paid to the first 
respondent as the value of 907 his existing share holding.  The 
56 
 
first respondent has been described as existing promoter in the 
said agreement.  The entire clause 2.1 is reproduced hereunder 
for a ready reference which reads thus:  
 
“2.1 Treatment of Exiting Promoter Shares 
(a) 
As on the effective date, the exiting promoter 
shall have transferred the exiting promoter 
shares to the following persons for an aggregate 
purchase consideration of Rs.30,00,000/- (Rupees 
thirty lakhs only) as follows: 
 
(i) 
907 (Nine Hundred and Seven) Exiting Promoter 
Shares to the following promoters for the amount 
(in aggregate for the Exiting Promoter Shares 
being transferred) as set out below: 
  
Promoter 
Exiting 
Promoter 
Shares to 
be 
transferred 
Amount to be 
paid to Exiting 
Promoter 
for 
transfer (in Rs) 
Mr. Rohin Dharmakumar 
303 
10,02,205.00 
Ms. Seema Singh 
302 
998,897.50 
Mr.Sumanth 
Reghavendra 
302 
998,897.50 
Total 
907 
Rs.30,00,000 
 
(b) 
 The Exiting Promoter agrees and undertakes to 
cooperate 
with 
the 
Promoters, 
undertake 
all 
procedures as may be required and execute any 
57 
 
documentation that may be required to complete the 
aforesaid transfer of the Exiting Promoter Shares as 
per the terms of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Exiting Promoter represents and warrants that: 
(i) 
He is the sole and exclusive owner of the Exiting 
Promoter Shares and has not divested or transferred 
his title or interest therein or granted beneficial 
ownership rights in or to the Exiting Promoter Shares 
to any person; 
(ii) 
He is entitled to transfer all rights, title and interest in 
the Exiting Promoter Shares as per provisions of this 
Agreement and 
(iii) 
The Exiting Promoter Shares shall be transferred 
free from all claims, charges, liens, encumbrances, 
options, rights of pre-emption or equities and rights 
attached thereto. 
(d) 
Upon the completion of the transfer of Exiting 
Promoter Shares in accordance with the provisions 
hereof, the Exiting Promoter shall cease to be a party 
to the SHA, and shall cease to be considered to be a 
‘Promoter’ or ‘Shareholder’ under the SHA or SSA, 
and shall not after the completion of the Exit be 
considered a ‘Promoter’ of the Company for any 
purpose”.  
(emphasis added) 
   
         
58 
 
54. 
Thus, the shares of the first appellant were transferred to 
the second to fourth appellants for a specific price.  Under the 
same agreement and in particular, under clause 3.1, it is 
specifically mentioned that a sum of Rs.2,62,500 (Two Lakhs 
Sixty Two Thousand and Five Hundred) was paid to the first 
respondent by the first appellant, in full and final settlement of all 
salary and other compensation in lieu of the existing employment 
of the first respondent with the first appellant and the services 
rendered by him to the first appellant. Hence, the said Agreement 
deed not provide for payment of any amount towards goodwill.  It 
is very difficult to draw an inference that any amount was paid 
towards goodwill to the first respondent.   Therefore, any clause 
in any of the agreements executed by the first respondent which 
restrains him from exercising a lawful profession as an author or 
editor, trade or business, will be void in view of Section 27 of the 
Contract Act.   Such clauses were not enforceable.   Therefore, 
by acting as an employee/editor of “The Morning Context”, it 
cannot be said that the first respondent has committed any 
breach of contractual obligations. 
                             
 
59 
 
55. 
Clause 2.4 of the said agreement provides for a non-
compete covenants.   Sub-clause (a) and (b) of clause 2.4 which 
are relevant read thus:  
 
“2.4 Exiting Promoter Non-Compete Covenants: 
(a) 
The Exiting Promoter covenants and agrees that that 
with effect from the Effective Date till the expiry of 
thirty-six (36) months therefrom the Exiting Promoter 
shall not, directly or indirectly (i) promote or 
commence any business or enterprise which is 
engaged in business or activity that is the same or is 
substantially similar to the Business or (ii) invest in 
the share capital or contribution of, or hold any 
shareholding, partnership, directorship, or any similar 
or equivalent interest in, any Person or business or 
enterprise which is engaged in a business or activity 
that is the same or is substantially similar to the 
Business, in each case, in any part of the world. 
 
(b) 
The Exiting Promoter agrees and acknowledges that 
the restrictions contained in this Clause 2.4 are 
considered reasonable for the legitimate protection of 
the business and goodwill of the Company and the 
investment of the Investors and are to be construed 
in keeping with the role he has played as a promoter 
of the Company and the access to business and 
proprietary information that this role has given him 
60 
 
access to.  However, in the event that such 
restrictions shall be found to be void, but would be 
valid if some part thereof was deleted or the scope, 
period or area of application were reduced, the 
above restrictions shall apply with the deletion of 
such words or such reduction of scope, period or 
area of application as may be required to make the 
restrictions contained in this Clause 2.4 valid and 
effective.” 
 
 
 
56. 
Though the first respondent’s wife who is a chartered 
accountant may have been involved in establishing fifth and sixth 
respondents companies, there is no prima facie material placed 
on record that the first respondent was involved in any manner 
with the promotion and commencement of the business of “The 
Morning Context”.   It is not the case made out that the first 
respondent was holding shares in the fifth and sixth respondents.   
 
57. 
Clause 2.5 of the same agreement contains Non-
Solicitation Covenants.   Sub-clauses (a) to (d) of clause 2.5 
which are relevant read thus:  
 
“2.5 Exiting Promoter Non-Solicitation Covenants 
(a) 
The Exiting Promoter covenants and agrees that with 
effect from the Effective Date till the expiry of thirty-
61 
 
six (36) months therefrom the Exiting Promoter shall 
not, directly or indirectly, in any capacity, whether 
through partnership or as a shareholder, joint venture 
partner, collaborator, consultant or agent or in any 
other manner whatsoever, whether for profit or 
others;  
(i) 
Attempt or persuade any Person, which is a 
client/customer/business associate of the Company 
to cease doing business or to reduce the amount of 
business which any such client/customer has 
customarily done or might propose doing with the 
Company and/or its subsidiary(ies) or damage in any 
way the business relationship that the Company has 
with any customer/client/business associate;  
(ii) 
Solicit or attempt to influence any Person, employed 
or engaged by the Company to terminate or 
otherwise cease such employment with the Company 
or any other person including a competitor; and/or 
(iii) 
Employ or attempt to employ or assist anyone else to 
employ or otherwise associate any person who is in 
the employment of the Company or associated with 
the Company, or was in the employment of the 
Company or otherwise associated with the Company 
at any time during the preceding 12 (twelve) months.” 
  
(b) 
The exiting Promoter agrees and acknowledges that 
the restrictions contained in this Clause 2.5 are 
considered reasonable for the legitimate protection of 
62 
 
the business and goodwill of the Company and the 
investment of the Investors and are to be construed 
in keeping with the role he has played as a promoter 
of the Company and the access to business and 
proprietary information that this role has given him 
access to.   However, in the event that such 
restrictions shall be found to be void, but would be 
valid if some part thereof was deleted or the scope, 
period or area of application were reduced, the 
above restrictions shall apply with the deletion of 
such words or such reduction of scope, period or 
area of application as may be required to make the 
restrictions contained in this Clause 2.6 valid and 
effective.  
(c) 
For the purpose of this Clause 2.5 (Exiting Promoter 
Non-Solicitation Covenant),  the term ‘Company’ 
shall include its subsidiary(ies), if any.  
(d) 
The Exiting Promoter acknowledges and agrees that 
any breach of the provisions of this Clause 2.5 may 
not be capable of being compensated in monetary 
damages and that the Company/Investors would be 
entitled to pursue any and all legal remedies 
available to it, including without limitation, specific 
performance or injunctive relief, to ensure protection 
of the interests of the Investors and the Company.” 
 
63 
 
There is not even a prima facie material on record to show that 
there is any breach committed by the first respondent of non-
solicitation covenants contained in clause 2.5 of the exit 
agreement.  
 
58. 
There is an allegation in the plaint that the first to fourth 
respondents have colluded with each other and after departing 
with the first appellant, they joined 5th respondent.   As noted 
earlier, the exit agreement is on 26th July, 2019.   The second 
respondent resigned by sending email dated 28th June, 2019.   
The information about the resignation of the second respondent 
was published by the first respondent on his twitter platform on 
30th June, 2019. The resignation of the second respondent 
became effective on 12th July, 2019. The third respondent 
resigned by email dated 8th July, 2019 effective from 6th August, 
2019. The information about the resignation of the third 
respondent was published by the first respondent on twitter 
platform on 26th June, 2019.  The fourth respondent resigned with 
effect from 24th July, 2019 by sending email dated 25th June, 
2019.  The information of his resignation was published by the 
first respondent on twitter platform on 26th June, 2019.    When 
64 
 
the second to fourth respondents joined the fifth respondent (‘The 
Morning Context’), the first respondent had no connection with 
the first appellant. At the time when the second to fourth 
respondents had tendered their resignations, the first respondent 
was not concerned with the ‘The Morning Context’.   The seventh 
respondent who is the wife of the first respondent is a Chartered 
Accountant and she was a founder director of the fifth 
respondent.   She was a founder Director of fifth respondent in 
her own right.  Therefore, even assuming that the first respondent 
had prior knowledge about the decision of the second to fourth 
respondents of resigning from their employment with the first 
appellant, it is very difficult to understand which clause of the 
agreement executed by the first respondent has been breached.  
 
59. 
Now coming to the employment agreements of the second 
to fourth respondents with the first appellant, we find that the 
same are more or less identical.  Clause-8 is regarding 
intellectual property, clause-9 is about confidential information, 
clause-10 is about the company assets and clause-11 is about 
non-competence and non-solicitation. Clause-19 provides that 
termination of the employment agreement shall not affect those 
65 
 
provisions of the agreement that by their nature or intended to 
survive such termination including without the limitation of the 
provisions of clause-8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16, 18, 20 and 21.   
Clause-11 thereof also provides that the second to fourth 
respondents shall not seek employment with a company whose 
business competes with the first appellant’s business.   Apart 
from the fact that clause-19 does not specifically record that 
clause-11 will survive after termination of the employment 
agreement and the fact that Section-27 will be applicable, it is 
very difficult to come to a prima facie conclusion that ‘The 
Morning Context’ is a competitor of the news platform of the first 
appellant.   There is not even a prima facie material placed on 
record for holding that “The Morning Context” was a competitor of 
the first appellant’s news platform. Moreover, it is not established 
that any information which is a confidential information of the first 
appellant was received by the first to fourth respondents and that 
the same was used by them which caused detriment or prejudice 
to the first appellant or any other persons to whom the first 
appellant intended to protect.  
 
66 
 
60. 
On careful evaluation of the pleadings, submissions made 
across the Bar and the materials placed on record, it is not 
possible for this Court to conclude that a prima facie case is 
made out by the appellants for grant of an order of temporary 
injunction.  
61. 
As regards balance of convenience and irreparable loss 
caused to the appellants, it is necessary for this Court to make a 
reference to the prayer clauses (F), (G), (H) and (I) of the plaint.    
The said prayer clauses contains the following prayers:  
“(i) 
A decree, directing the first respondent (defendant 
No.1) to refund a sum of Rs.30,00,000/- to the 
appellants Nos.2, 3 and 4 (along with permissible 
interest under Interest Act, 1979) from 31st  July 2019 
until the eventual repayment; 
 
(ii) 
A decree against the first respondent, directing him 
to pay a sum of Rs.50,00,000/- towards liquidated 
damages owed to the appellant/Plaintiff; 
 
(iii) 
A decree, directing the fifth and sixth respondents to 
pay a sum of Rs.50,00,000/- jointly and severally to 
the first appellant as damages owed to the appellant 
No.1; 
(iv) 
A decree, directing the fifth and sixth respondents to 
pay a sum of Rs.1,00,00,000/- joint and severally to 
67 
 
the first appellant/Plaintiff No.1, for the unauthorized 
use of first appellant’s confidential information.” 
 
The prayers made as above clearly indicate that the alleged loss 
which may be caused to the appellants due to the alleged 
breaches of restrictive covenants of various agreements by the 
respondents can be always compensated in terms of money.   
Hence, prima facie, the appellants have failed to substantiate that 
the balance of convenience lies in their favour and irreparable 
loss will be caused to them if temporary injunction as prayed is 
not granted.   
62. 
After having gone through the impugned Judgment and 
order, there may be some substance in the contention urged by 
the learned counsel appearing for the appellants that the 
documents and the submissions have not been fully considered 
by the trial Court.   However, we have re-examined the entire 
case pleaded by the appellants and have recorded the findings as 
above.  The impugned Judgment and order is a discretionary 
order.   The ultimate conclusion drawn in the same cannot be 
faulted with. 
63. 
In view of the above discussion and for the foregoing 
reasons, we find that the impugned Judgment and order dated 
68 
 
22nd October, 2020, passed by the learned LXXXIII additional City 
Civil and Sessions Judge (CCH-84) at Bengaluru in the 
commercial original suit No.362/2019, rejecting the interlocutory 
applications (IAs) II, III, and IV filed by the appellants under Rules 
1 and 2 of Order XXXIX of CPC, for grant of temporary injunction 
does not warrant interference at the hands of this Court.  
64. 
Accordingly, we pass the following:  
ORDER 
(i) The appeal is accordingly dismissed with no order as to the 
costs; 
(ii) We make it clear that the findings recorded in this 
Judgment are only tentative and prima facie findings for 
limited purposes of dealing with the issue of grant of 
interim relief and the learned Judge of the Commercial 
Court shall decide the suit on merits, uninfluenced by 
any of the observations made in this judgment as well 
as in the impugned judgment and order. 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
 CHIEF JUSTICE 
 
 
 
          
 
     Sd/- 
           JUDGE 
 
VR 
