COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 1  
  
 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU 
DATED THIS THE 21ST DAY OF APRIL, 2021 
PRESENT 
THE HON’BLE MR. ABHAY S. OKA, CHIEF JUSTICE 
AND 
THE HON’BLE MR. JUSTICE SURAJ GOVINDARAJ 
 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021 
 
BETWEEN: 
 
WHOLCOM TRADING PRIVATE LIMITED 
HAVING ITS OFFICE AT 199/1 
HSR LAYOUT, SECTOR-1, AGARA VILLAGE  
SARJAPURA ROAD, 2ND FLOOR, CABIN A  
22ND MAIN ROAD, BEGUR HOBLI 
BENGALURU - 560 102 
REP. BY ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR 
MR. BHADRAVATHI SATYANARAYAN GANESH           ... APPELLANT 
 
(BY SRI. G. KRISHNAMURTHY, SENIOR COUNSEL FOR  
     SRI. SIMHA DUTTA.S, ADVOCATE) 
 
AND: 
 
SRI. V. PRASAD 
S/O LATE Y. VENKATAPPA 
AGED ABOUT 49 YEARS 
RESIDING AT NO.1/C 
GIDDAPANAHALLI VILLAGE 
SULIBELE HOBLI, HOSKOTE TALUK 
BENGALURU RURAL DISTRICT-560 067  
     … RESPONDENT 
 
(BY SRI. ASHOK HARANAHALLI, SENIOR COUNSEL FOR  
      SRI. M.S.DEVARAJU, ADVOCATE FOR C/RESPONDENT-PH)  
 
 
THIS APPEAL IS FILED UNDER SECTION 13(1A) OF THE 
COMMERCIAL COURTS ACT, 2015 READ WITH SECTION 104 AND 
ORDER XLIII RULE 1(R) OF THE CPC 1908, PRAYING TO ALLOW 
THIS APPEAL AND MODIFY THE ORDER DATED 25.02.2021 AND 
SET ASIDE THE FOUR CONDITIONS IMPOSED BY THE HON’BLE X 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 2  
  
 
ADDL. DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE, BENGALURU RURAL 
DISTRICT, BENGALURU THROUGH ORDER DATED 25.02.2021 ON 
I.A.NO.1 FILED UNDER ORDER XXXIX RULE 1 AND 2 OF THE CPC, 
1908 IN COMM.O.S.NO.753/2021, IN THE INTEREST OF EQUITY AND 
JUSTICE.  
 
***** 
 
THIS APPEAL COMING ON FOR  ADMISSION AND HAVING 
BEEN RESERVED FOR ORDERS ON 08.04.2021, THIS DAY,  
SURAJ GOVINDARAJ J., PRONOUNCED THE FOLLOWING: 
 
J U D G M E N T 
 
1. 
The Appellant is before this Court seeking modification 
of the order dated 25.02.2021 passed by the X Addl. 
District and Sessions Judge, Bangalore Rural District, 
Bangalore in his order dated 25.02.2021 on IA-3 filed 
under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 of Code of Civil 
Procedure, 1908 (for short ‘CPC’) in COM. OS. No. 
753/2021 by setting aside the conditions imposed in the 
said order. 
2. 
COM.OS. No. 753/2021 is filed by the Appellant herein 
seeking a declaration that the cancellation of the lease 
dated 18.06.2020 made and executed on 23.10.2020 
registered as document No.HSK-1-05788-2020-21 is 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 3  
  
 
void and not binding on the Plaintiff.  An application 
under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 had been filed seeking for 
an order of temporary injunction restraining the 
defendants therein or anybody acting on their behalf 
from creating any right, title or interest in the suit 
schedule property.   
3. 
The suit schedule property is an office space measuring 
2,01,706 sq.ft with common area of 1,45,560 sq.ft in a 
building constructed in property bearing No.119, 
Ekarajapura, Near Sun Pharma Factory, Hoskote-
Siddlaghatta Road, Sulibele Hobli, Hoskote Taluk, 
Bengaluru Rural District, Bengaluru.  
4. 
The case of the appellant/plaintiff is that: 
4.1. 
The aforesaid property belongs to the Defendant, 
the Defendant having partially constructed a 
warehouse being desirous of leasing the same 
had approached a real estate agency, the Real 
estate agency had approached the Plaintiff to 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 4  
  
 
take the said property on lease, the Plaintiff after 
inspecting the warehouse, was satisfied with the 
location and the structure of the warehouse, and 
as such, upon negotiation, a lease agreement 
came to be executed on 18.06.2020 whereunder 
the Plaintiff had agreed to pay a security deposit 
of Rs.1,17,99,800/- and a monthly rental of 
Rs.39,33,267/-.   
4.2. 
The said security deposit was to be paid in three 
instalments of Rs.39,33,267/-, the first instalment 
was paid at the time of execution of the lease, 
which had been paid on 18.6.2020, the second 
instalment to be paid on completion of the work 
relating to installation of fire hydrant system and 
issuance of ‘No objection certificate’ and third 
instalment was to be paid on all necessary 
statutory compliance with the physical possession 
of the warehouse would be handed over to the 
Plaintiff. 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 5  
  
 
4.3. 
Plaintiff contends that the lease agreement was 
signed and executed by the representative of 
Plaintiff viz., Prithvi Kowshik, who was the 
employee of the Plaintiff, who tendered his 
resignation on 12.09.2020. 
 
4.4. 
While awaiting the compliance of the obligation by 
Defendant, the Plaintiff received a letter in July 
2020 from some of the local villagers alleging that 
there are certain illegalities in the construction of 
the warehouse, there was an encroachment of 
certain properties, including a kaludari (footpath), 
as regards which a proceeding is pending in a 
Court of law.   
 
4.5. 
On receipt of the said information/complainant, 
Plaintiff had approached Defendant seeking for 
an 
explanation 
towards 
which 
no 
proper 
explanation was issued by Defendant.  It is 
alleged that the Plaintiff thereafter on enquiry 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 6  
  
 
became aware of two different plan sanctions 
obtained by Defendant, one from the local 
panchayat and the other from Hoskote Planning 
Authority, certain other litigations between the 
Defendant and neighbouring landowners and as 
such, the Plaintiff sought for further clarification 
from the Defendant.  As regards this also, no 
information or clarification was received. 
 
4.6. 
At this juncture, Plaintiff came to know or became 
aware of the fact that the Defendant in conspiracy 
with the former employee of the Plaintiff viz., 
Mr.Prithvi Kowshik, who resigned on 12.09.2020, 
had got executed a cancellation of the lease deed 
on 23.10.2020  and got the same registered in the 
office of the jurisdictional sub-registrar’s office.   
 
4.7. 
In the said cancellation agreement, there was a 
mention of Demand Draft bearing No;. 970671 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 7  
  
 
drawn on Canara Bank, Hokote having been 
handed over to the said Prithvi Kowshik.  
 
4.8. 
The cancellation of lease deed being illegal and 
impermissible, the Plaintiff coming to know of the 
fact that the Defendant was seeking to defraud 
the Plaintiff of its legal rights under the registered 
lease agreement had filed COM. OS. No. 
753/2021 
seeking 
a 
declaration 
that 
the 
cancellation of the lease deed is void and not 
binding on the Plaintiff. 
5. 
On service of notice, Defendant entered appearance 
and denied all the allegations made by Plaintiff.  The 
Defendant contended that  
5.1. 
Mr.Prithvi Kowshik authorised signatory on behalf 
of Plaintiff, had approached Defendant for 
cancellation, and it is in that background the 
agreement has been cancelled.   
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 8  
  
 
5.2. 
Be that as it may, the petitioner does not have 
any objection to cancel the cancellation subject to 
Plaintiff making payment of the due amounts and 
taking over the property and making payment of 
the due rentals thereon.   
5.3. 
As regards the other allegations regarding 
encroachment of the property and or the plan 
sanctions, 
the 
same 
was 
denied 
by 
the 
defendants.   
5.4. 
It was contended by Defendant that Defendant 
has been ready and willing to perform his part of 
the obligations.  It is in fact the Plaintiff who was 
unable to perform its obligation, that the Plaintiff 
did not have the wherewithal to go ahead with the 
lease agreement, they did not have the solvency 
or financial ability to comply with the same.  It is 
for this reason the lease deed came to be 
cancelled.   
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 9  
  
 
5.5. 
Defendant, having borrowed a huge amount of 
monies from third parties, is required to return the 
said monies, and it is for this reason the 
Defendant was looking out for prospective 
lessees.  If Plaintiff were to go ahead with the 
lease and make payment of the amounts due, 
Defendant would not deal with the property and 
was ready to restore the lease deed dated 
18.06.2020 and make available the same to 
Plaintiff for its use.  On similar grounds, 
objections to interlocutory application was also 
filed. 
6. 
After hearing the parties, the trial Court came to a 
conclusion that the Plaintiff had made out a prima facie 
case in its favour and also came to a conclusion that 
there are doubtful circumstances surrounding the 
execution of cancellation of lease deed on 20.03.2020; 
hence, the balance of convenience was also held to be 
in favour of the Plaintiff, but, however, the trial Court 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 10  
  
 
also recognised the fact that granting of an injunction as 
sought for is likely to cause loss to the Defendant.  In 
view thereof, the trial court allowed the application for 
grant of a temporary injunction by imposing the 
following conditions: 
6.1. 
The Plaintiff shall return DD No.970671 dated. 
23.10.2020 for Rs.39,33,267/- to the defendant. 
 
6.2. 
The Plaintiff shall deposit 2nd and 3rd installments 
of 
security 
deposit 
totally 
amounting 
to 
Rs.78,66,534/- before the Court. 
 
 
6.3. 
The Plaintiff shall deposit agreed rent of the suit 
schedule property i.e. Rs.39,33,267/- per month 
before the Court from 2.1.2021 till 28.02.2021. 
 
6.4. 
The Plaintiff shall continue to deposit agreed 
monthly rent as and when it becomes due on or 
before 5th day of succeeding month till disposal of 
the suit.  
 
On such return of DD, the Defendant is at liberty to 
get it cancelled and to use the amount.  On such 
deposit of amount as per condition No.2 & 3, same 
shall be kept in F.D. in any nationalised bank in 
the name of the Court and the succeeding party 
can claim the rent portion with interest.  If the suit 
schedule property is occupied by the Plaintiff, the 
security deposit amount and its interest shall go to 
the Defendant or otherwise, it will be refunded to 
the Plaintiff. 
 
The Plaintiff shall comply the above condition no.1 
to 3 on or before next date of hearing.  If he fails to 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 11  
  
 
comply any of the conditions, T.I. stands 
automatically cancelled.  
7. 
It is aggrieved by the same that Plaintiff is before this 
Court on appeal seeking to set aside the conditions 
imposed in the order as extracted hereinabove. 
8. 
Sri.G.Krishnamurthy, learned Senior counsel for the 
Appellant, would submit that: 
8.1. 
 The Appellant has filed a suit seeking for a 
declaration that the cancellation of the lease deed 
is bad in law.  The trial Court having come to a 
conclusion that a prima facie case is made out by 
the Plaintiff, balance of convenience lies in favour 
of the Plaintiff and that the hardship that may be 
caused to the Plaintiff cannot be compensated in 
terms of money, it was not permissible for the trial 
Court to impose the conditions so imposed by the 
trial Court.   
8.2. 
The Appellant is only aggrieved by the conditions, 
the conditions not being required to be so 
imposed, he submits that the said conditions are 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 12  
  
 
required to be deleted from the order dated 
25.02.2021.  
 
8.3. 
The Demand Draft dated 23.10.2020 has not 
been received by the Plaintiff inasmuch as the 
said Demand Draft is stated to have been handed 
over to Sri.Prithvi Kowshik on 23.10.2020, when, 
in fact, the said Prithvi Kowshik had resigned from 
the services of the Plaintiff on 12.09.2020 itself.  
Since Sri.Prithvi Kowshik is no longer in the 
employment of the Plaintiff, and the Demand 
Draft had been handed over to him post his 
resignation; the Plaintiff is not in a position to 
obtain the Demand Draft from Sri.Prithvi Kowshik 
and hand it over to Defendant.  Be that as it may 
he submits that the Defendant being in touch with 
said Prithvi Kowshik, it is the Defendant who can 
approach said Prithvi Kowshik and obtain the 
Demand Draft.  The Appellant has neither 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 13  
  
 
received the Demand Draft nor encashed the 
same. 
 
8.4. 
The Plaintiff is ready to deposit the second and 
third instalments of the security deposit; however, 
imposition of the condition of payment of rentals 
every month without being able to make use of 
the said premises would cause grave and 
irreparable harm to the Plaintiff.  The Defendant 
has not complied with the terms and conditions of 
the lease deed; without such compliance, the 
Plaintiff is unable to take possession of the 
property. 
 
9. 
Per contra, Sri. Ashok Haranahalli, learned Senior 
counsel appearing for the respondent-defendant, would 
submit that: 
9.1. 
The respondent-defendant is still ready and 
willing to hand over the property, subject matter of 
the lease agreement, to the Plaintiff by restoring 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 14  
  
 
the cancelled lease agreement.  The Plaintiff, if so 
interested, can always take possession of the 
property and make payment of the due amounts.  
 
9.2. 
He further submits that the Defendant has 
complied with all the obligations, has put up 
construction by investing huge amounts of 
money, the only manner in which the interest of 
the Defendant can be safeguarded is by way of 
conditions imposed by the trial Court.  If the 
Plaintiff were to fail to establish its contentions, 
more so when the Defendant is willing to restore 
the Lease Deed and the suit is dismissed, then 
the Defendant would neither have been able to 
make use of his property, nor rent the property 
and furthermore, the Defendant would not have 
earned any money out of the property during the 
interregnum, The trial Court has therefore rightly 
imposed the conditions as done.   
 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 15  
  
 
9.3. 
As regards the Demand Draft dated 23.10.2020, 
he submits that the Defendant has obtained 
Demand Draft from its Bankers and given it to Sri. 
Prithvi Kowshik, representative of the Plaintiff.  
Said Demand Draft is made out in the name of 
the Plaintiff.  Therefore, the Plaintiff cannot now 
contend that condition No.1 cannot be complied 
with.  It is for the Plaintiff to obtain the demand 
draft from its employee and return it to the 
Defendant. 
 
9.4. 
If the Plaintiff neither wants to take possession of 
the land and building nor make payments of the 
amounts due in the lease deed, the interest of 
Defendant would suffer irreparably, and there is 
no manner of the Defendant being able to make 
good the losses which would be caused to the 
Defendant, as such he submits that the appeal as 
filed may be dismissed. 
 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 16  
  
 
10. 
Heard Sri.G.Krishnamurthy, learned Senior counsel for 
Sri.Simhadutta.S, learned counsel for the Appellant and 
Sri.Ashok Haranahalli, learned Senior counsel for 
Sri.M.S.Devaraju, learned counsel for the respondent.  
Perused papers.   
 
11. 
The points that would arise for our determination are: 
 
i) 
Whether while granting interim injunction on 
an application filed under Order 39 Rule 1 and 
2 CPC, the Commercial Court can impose 
conditions? 
ii) 
Whether the conditions imposed by the 
Commercial Court are proper and correct or 
do they require interference at the hands of 
this Court? 
iii) 
What order? 
 
12. 
Answer to Point No.1: Whether while granting 
interim injunction on an application filed under 
Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC, the Commercial Court 
can impose conditions? 
 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 17  
  
 
12.1. The facts as stated above are not in dispute 
except firstly Plaintiff alleging that the Defendant 
has not discharged all its obligations whereas the 
defendants alleging that it has discharged all the 
obligations; secondly, that the cancellation of the 
lease deed was got executed through Sri. Prithvi 
Kowshik, who is no longer an employee of the 
Plaintiff; and thirdly that the conditions imposed 
are onerous, ought not to have been imposed. 
12.2. The 
execution 
of 
the 
lease 
agreement, 
registration of the lease agreement, the payments 
required to be made under the same are not in 
dispute.  
12.3. As stated earlier, the agreement between the 
parties was to the effect that the Defendant would 
construct 
the 
building, 
obtain 
necessary 
permissions and licences and lease it out to the 
Plaintiff.  The construction made is not in dispute; 
however, the Plaintiff contends that Defendant 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 18  
  
 
has not obtained necessary permissions and 
licences and as such, the Plaintiff is unable to 
take possession of the property. 
12.4. Suit has been filed seeking for a declaration that 
the cancellation of the lease deed is void and not 
binding on the Plaintiff, and in the said suit, an 
injunction is sought for restraining the defendants 
from creating any right, title and interest in the suit 
schedule property, thereby implying that the 
property is required to be maintained in status-
quo without the Defendant being able to use the 
property by way of letting it out to any one else or 
selling the property.  If the Plaintiff wants an 
equitable relief, he must do equity by complying 
with his part of the agreement by depositing the 
monthly rentals.  But, the Plaintiff is not willing to 
do so.  
12.5. A Court while dealing with a matter of granting an 
injunction against the Defendant restraining the 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 19  
  
 
Defendant from doing any particular act, if the 
said injunction order were to have the effect of 
causing any harm, injury or loss to the Defendant 
even though on a comparative analysis the harm, 
loss and injury caused to the Plaintiff may be 
more than that which would be caused to the 
Defendant, it is but required that the said harm 
loss and injury that may be caused to the 
Defendant on account of passing of an order of 
injunction be compensated in the event of the 
Plaintiff failing in his suit.   
12.6. This being so since if not for the order passed by 
a Court of law there would be no loss, harm 
caused or likely to be caused to such Defendant.  
The Apex Court in the case of Wander Ltd. And 
Another –v- Antox India P.Ltd. [(1990) 1 SCC 
727] at para 5 has held as under: 
“5. Usually, the prayer for grant of an interlocutory 
injunction is at a stage when the existence of the legal 
right asserted by the Plaintiff and its alleged violation 
are both contested and uncertain and remain uncertain 
till they are established at the trial on evidence. The 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 20  
  
 
Court, at this stage, acts on certain well settled 
principles of administration of this form of interlocutory 
remedy which is both temporary and discretionary. The 
object of the interlocutory injucntion, it is stated is to 
protect the Plaintiff against injury by violation of his 
rights for which he could not adequately be 
compensated in damages recoverable in the action if 
the uncertainty were resolved in his favour at the trial. 
The need for such protection must be weighed against 
the corresponding need of the Defendant to be 
protected against injury resulting from his having been 
prevented from exercising his own legal rights for 
which he could not be adequately compensated. The 
Court must weigh one need against another and 
determine where the “balance of convenience lies”. 
The interlocutory remedy is intended to preserve in 
status quo, the rights of parties which may appear on a 
prima facie. The Court also, in restraining a defendant 
from exercising what he considers his legal right but 
what the Plaintiff would like to be prevented, puts into 
the scales, as a relevant consideration whether the 
Defendant has yet to commence his enterprise or 
whether he has already been doing so in which latter 
case considerations somewhat different from those that 
apply to a case where the Defendant is yet to 
commence his enterprise, are attracted.” 
 
12.7. The 
Apex 
Court 
in 
the 
case 
of   
M/s Gujarat Pottling Co.Ltd. & Others –v- The 
Coca Cola & Co. & Others-[(1995) 5 SCC 545] 
at para 43 has held as under: 
43. The grant of an interlocutory injunction during 
the pendency of legal proceedings is a matter 
requiring the exercise of discretion of the Court. 
While exercising the discretion the Court applies 
the following tests — (i) whether the Plaintiff has a 
prima facie case; (ii) whether the balance of 
convenience is in favour of the Plaintiff; and (iii) 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 21  
  
 
whether the Plaintiff would suffer an irreparable 
injury if his prayer for interlocutory injunction is 
disallowed. The decision whether or not to grant an 
interlocutory injunction has to be taken at a time 
when the existence of the legal right assailed by the 
Plaintiff and its alleged violation are both contested 
and uncertain and remain uncertain till they are 
established at the trial on evidence. Relief by way 
of interlocutory injunction is granted to mitigate the 
risk of injustice to the Plaintiff during the period 
before that uncertainty could be resolved. The 
object of the interlocutory injunction is to protect the 
Plaintiff against injury by violation of his right for 
which he could not be adequately compensated in 
damages recoverable in the action if the uncertainty 
were resolved in his favour at the trial. The need for 
such protection has, however, to be weighed 
against the corresponding need of the Defendant to 
be protected against injury resulting from his having 
been prevented from exercising his own legal rights 
for which he could not be adequately compensated. 
The Court must weigh one need against another 
and determine where the “balance of convenience” 
lies. [See: Wander Ltd. v. Antox India (P) Ltd. (SCC 
at pp. 731-32).  In order to protect the Defendant 
while granting an interlocutory injunction in his 
favour the Court can require the Plaintiff to furnish 
an undertaking so that the Defendant can be 
adequately compensated if the uncertainty were 
resolved in his favour at the trial. 
12.8. Thus, while granting an order of injunction, it is 
the bounden duty of any Court of law to consider 
the comparable damage, loss or injury that may 
be caused both to the Plaintiff and/or the 
Defendant and it would be the duty of the Court to 
protect the Defendant from any losses which may 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 22  
  
 
be caused on the Plaintiff failing in the suit, such 
losses being caused on account of the injunction 
issued on an application being made by such a 
plaintiff.  
12.9. 
We cannot agree with the contentions of 
Sri.G.Krishnamurthy, learned Senior counsel that 
since 
prima 
facie 
case, 
the 
balance 
of 
convenience and irreparable injury has been held 
to be in favour of the Plaintiff, injunction order 
ought to have been issued without imposing any 
conditions.  As stated earlier, it may be that the 
irreparable comparative injury caused to the 
Plaintiff is greater than that which may be caused 
to the Defendant, however, when there is any 
injury which is likely to be caused to the 
Defendant, it would but be required for a Court of 
law while granting an order of injunction to 
impose such conditions as may be necessary to 
safeguard the interest of the Defendant against 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 23  
  
 
whom an injunction order is passed, in the event 
of the Plaintiff not succeeding in the suit. 
12.10. We, therefore, answer Point No.1 by holding 
that while granting an interim injunction on an 
application filed under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 
CPC, the Commercial Court can impose 
conditions on the Plaintiff while granting an 
order of injunction so as to protect the 
Defendant in the event of the Plaintiff not 
succeeding. 
 
13. 
Answer to Point No.2: Whether the conditions 
imposed by the Commercial Court are proper and 
correct or do they require interference at the hands 
of this Court? 
 
13.1. The subject matter of the contract has been 
explained hereinabove.  Suffice it to say that 
there was a lease deed entered into between the 
Plaintiff and Defendant under the said lease 
deed; there were various obligations to be 
performed by both the parties; the defendant-
owner was to construct and hand over the 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 24  
  
 
premises 
after 
obtaining 
the 
necessary 
permission.  Plaintiff was required to make a 
deposit of a certain security amount and make 
payment of the monthly lease rentals.   
13.2. Though Plaintiff alleges that the Defendant has 
not complied with its obligations, the Defendant 
contends that the Defendant has complied and is 
ready to hand over the constructed area to 
Plaintiff.  This is again refuted by Plaintiff.   
13.3. The veracity of these facts cannot be ascertained 
at the Interlocutory stage and the same would 
require a trial to be held and these aspect to be 
determined.  It is in such circumstances, 
aforesaid conditions have been imposed by the 
trial Court while granting an order of injunction in 
favour of the Plaintiff restraining the Defendant 
from creating any encumbrance or dealing with 
the property, subject matter of the lease.   
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 25  
  
 
13.4. Thus it cannot be disputed that on the passing of 
an order of injunction, the Defendant would be 
unable to make use of the property which the 
Defendant would normally have been able to 
make use of.  Admittedly, the rentals per month 
for the property has been agreed upon between 
the parties.  Thus, the loss which may be caused 
has been determined and agreed upon by the 
parties.  It is for this reason that the trial Court, 
while granting an order of injunction in order to 
protect the interest of the Defendant, has 
imposed the conditions. 
 
13.5. The first condition as regards return of the 
Demand Draft as on today has been rendered 
academic inasmuch as the Demand Draft dated 
23.10.2020 has spent itself and has expired.  The 
Defendant, therefore, would be in a position to 
seek for cancellation of the said Demand Draft 
and remittance of the amount into its accounts, if 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 26  
  
 
there are any documents required to be executed 
by the Plaintiff like a letter etc., the Plaintiff is 
directed to execute such documents to enable the 
Defendant 
to 
cancel 
the 
Demand 
Draft 
No.970671 dated 23.10.2020 and for remittance 
of the amount covered thereunder into its 
account. 
 
13.6. The second condition as regards deposit of the 
second and third instalments of the security 
deposit is in terms of the lease deed entered into 
between the parties; the trial Court has only 
directed to deposit the said amounts in the Court, 
needless to say, the same would not, for now, be 
made available to the defendants.  Hence, we 
find no infirmity in this condition also. 
 
13.7. The third and fourth conditions are as regards the 
deposit of the monthly rentals as agreed upon 
under the lease deed.  This being for the reason 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 27  
  
 
that Defendant would not be able to earn from the 
said property, while Defendant is prevented by 
order of injunction from leasing or dealing with the 
property. If not for the order of injunction the 
Defendant would have been in a position to lease 
out the property and earn rentals, thought 
Defendant has agreed to reinstate the lease 
deed, the Plaintiff has expressed its inability to 
take possession of the property on account of the 
Defendant not having discharged its obligations. 
Whether each of the parties has discharged its 
obligation or not would be decided after 
completion of the trial. It is to secure the interests 
of both parties that the third condition is imposed.  
We find no infirmity in this condition also. 
 
13.8.  However, taking into consideration that as per 
the order of the trial Court the said amounts have 
to be deposited by the next date  i.e. 17.04.2021 
and the Plaintiff has been before this Court from 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 28  
  
 
22.03.2021 prosecuting the above appeal, we are 
of the considered opinion that the time to comply 
with the said condition would be required to be 
extended and as such, the same is extended by a 
further period of one month from 17.04.2021.  
The amounts stated in condition No.2, 3 and 4 to 
be deposited by the Plaintiff by 17.05.2021.  
Needless to state that if such amounts are not so 
deposited by that date, the interim order of 
injunction 
granted 
by 
the 
trial 
Court 
will 
automatically stand vacated. On such deposit 
being made, the same would be kept in a fixed 
deposit initially for a period of one year and 
renewed from time to time until the resolution of 
the matter.  In the event the order of injunction 
stands vacated on account of non-compliance of 
the above conditions, if any third party rights are 
created by Defendant, the same will be subject to 
the final outcome of the suit. 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 29  
  
 
14. 
Answer to Point No.3: What order? 
14.1. The order of the trial Court dated 25.02.2021 is 
modified as under:- 
14.1.1. 
The 
order 
of 
temporary 
injunction 
restraining the Defendant from creating any 
third party rights is confirmed. 
14.1.2. 
There would be no requirement for the 
Plaintiff to return DD No.970671 dated 
23.10.2020 for a sum of Rs.39,33,267/- to 
the Defendant. 
14.1.3. 
The Defendant may however approach the 
concerned Bank for cancellation of the said 
DD and credit the amount covered under 
the said DD into its account.  In this 
connection, if any documents are required 
to be executed by the Plaintiff as required 
by the Bank, the Plaintiff shall execute such 
documents. 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 30  
  
 
14.1.4. 
The second condition requiring the Plaintiff 
to deposit the second and third installments 
of security deposit totally amounting to 
Rs.78,66,534/- remains unaltered.   
14.1.5. 
The third condition requiring the Plaintiff to 
deposit the agreed rent of the suit schedule 
property i.e., Rs.39,33,267/- per month 
from 02.01.2021 till 28.02.2021 remains 
unaltered.   
14.1.6. 
The fourth condition requiring the Plaintiff to 
deposit the further monthly rent as and 
when it becomes due on or before 5th day 
of succeeding month till disposal of the suit 
remains unaltered. 
14.1.7. 
On deposit of the aforesaid amounts, the 
same shall be remitted into a fixed deposit 
in any of the nationalised Bank in the name 
of the Court and renewed from time to time 
until the disposal of the suit. 
COMAP. No.56 OF 2021    
 31  
  
 
14.1.8. 
The succeeding party shall be entitled to 
receive the said amount along with interest. 
14.1.9. 
In the event of the deposits not being made 
by Plaintiff, the injunction order will stand 
vacated, any third party rights created by 
the Defendant would however be subject to 
the result of the suit. 
 
With the above observations, the appeal is partly 
allowed. 
No order as to costs. 
 
 
 
        Sd/- 
                                                             CHIEF JUSTICE 
                                                     
                                             
                                                Sd/- 
      JUDGE 
 
 
 
 
ln 
 
