 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU 
 
DATED THIS THE 19TH DAY OF AUGUST, 2021 
 
PRESENT 
 
THE HON'BLE Mr. JUSTICE ARAVIND KUMAR  
 
AND 
 
THE HON'BLE Mr. JUSTICE PRADEEP SINGH YERUR 
 
COMMERCIAL APPEAL No.135 OF 2021 
 
BETWEEN:  
 
M/S.AXIS BANK LTD., 
AXIS HOUSE, C-2, WADIA 
INTERNATIONAL CENTRE 
PANDURANG BUDHKAR MARG  
WORLI, MUMBAI – 400 025 
 
REP. BY ITS SENIOR MANAGER 
MR.CHENGAPPA P.T 
AGED ABOUT 40 YEARS 
AXIS BANK LIMITED 
BASAVANAGUDI BRANCH 
NO.41, SUBHASHRI PRIDE 
SOUTH END ROAD 
BASAVANAGUDI 
BENGALURU -560 004 
 
 
 
    ... APPELLANT 
 
(BY SRI UNNIKRISHNAN M., ADVOCATE) 
 
AND: 
 
1. 
BANGALORE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT  
 
CORPORATION LIMITED (BMTC) 
 
CENTRAL OFFICES, K.H.ROAD 
 
SHANTHINAGAR 
 
BENGALURU – 560 027 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
REPRESENTED BY ITS  
MANAGING DIRECTOR 
 
2. 
THE CHIEF TRAFFIC MANAGER (O) 
 
PROJECT MANAGER 
 
BENGALURU METROPOLITAN  
TRANSPORT  CORPORATION (BMTC) 
 
CENTRAL OFFICES 
 
K.H.ROAD, SHANTHINAGAR 
 
BENGALURU – 560 027 
 
3. 
THE DIRECTOR (FINANCE) 
 
FA, CO, BRANDED SMART CARD PROJECT 
 
BENGALURU METROPOLITAN  
TRANSPORT CORPORATION (BMTC) 
 
CENTRAL OFFICES 
K.H.ROAD, SHANTHINAGAR 
 
BENGALURU – 560 027 
 
 
…. RESPONDENTS  
***** 
 
THIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL IS FILED UNDER SECTION 13 
1(A) OF THE COMMERCIAL COURTS ACT R/W SECTION 37(1)(B) 
OF THE ARBITRATION & CONCILIATION ACT, 1996 PRAYING TO 
SET ASIDE THE ORDER DATED 30.06.2021 IN COM.AA. 
NO.6/2020 PASSED BY LXXXII ADDITIONAL CITY CIVIL AND 
SESSSIONS 
JUDGE 
AT 
BENGALURU 
AT 
ANNEXURE-A 
DISMISSING THE PETITION FILED BY THE APPELLANT UNDER 
SECTION 94 OF THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACAT, 
1996 AND ETC. 
 
THIS APPEAL COMING ON FOR ADMISSION THIS DAY, 
ARAVIND KUMAR J., DELIVERED THE FOLLOWING: 
 
J U D G M E N T 
 
Heard 
Sri 
Unnikrsihnan 
M., 
learned 
counsel 
appearing for appellant.  Perused the records. 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
2.  This appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration 
and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short ‘Arbitration Act’) is 
filed 
by 
the 
plaintiff 
challenging 
the 
order 
dated 
30.06.2021 passed in Com.AA.No.6/2020 whereunder 
petition filed under Section 9(ii)(c)(d)(e) of the Arbitration 
Act came to be dismissed. Prayer which came to be sought 
for by the appellant before the Court below in the petition 
filed for grant of interim measures reads: 
“a) To issue an ad interim order of injunction 
restraining 
the 
Respondents 
from 
appointing any financial institution or any 
Service Provider for Smart Card Based 
Fare Collection System Project till an 
Arbitrator is appointed to adjudicate the 
disputes between the parties. 
b) 
To 
direct 
the 
Respondents 
for 
the 
continuation of the use of Smart Cards by 
the customers of the Petitioner and since 
the Agreement, Dated:28.02.2014 has not 
been 
terminated 
in 
terms 
of 
the 
procedures as agreed between the parties 
in the same. 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
c)  To direct the Respondents to maintain / 
keep the Bank Guarantee amount of Rs. 
75 Lakhs in a Fixed Deposit in IndusInd 
Bank Trade Finance Department or any 
other Nationalised bank in order to protect 
the interest of the Petitioner till the 
disposal of the Arbitral Proceedings.” 
 
3. 
On 
service 
of 
notice 
before 
trial 
Court, 
respondents appeared and filed detailed statement of 
objections vide Annexure-W denying averments made in 
the petition except to the extent expressly admitted 
thereunder. As noticed hereinabove, learned trial Judge 
has considered rival contentions and by impugned order 
dismissed the application.  Hence, this appeal.   
 
4.  Appellant is a Company incorporated under the 
Companies Act, 1956 and carrying on business of Banking 
and having several branches across the country including 
one at Bengaluru.  The first respondent floated a tender in 
March, 2013 calling upon the proposed bidders to submit 
their bids in order to set up and implement Intelligent 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
Transport System and to facilitate the collection of bus 
fares by introducing smart cards to the passengers/ 
traveling public.  In the tender so floated in March, 2013, 
appellant was selected as a “Financial Institution” and a 
letter of intent dated 28.11.2013 came to be issued.  Thus, 
appellant was chosen as Nodal Bank for Bangalore 
Metropolitan Transport Corporation (for short ‘BMTC’) to 
implement the Smart Card Fare Collection System. The 
terms and conditions as agreed to thereunder between the 
parties is said to have not been adhered to by the 
appellant and on account of request made by respondents 
to implement Smart Card System by communication dated 
17.03.2018, it was alleged by respondents that appellant 
was not able to take up the development of system and 
facilitate the issue of several modules like student pass 
conversion, monthly pass, daily pass etc. It was the 
grievance of the respondents that failure on the part of the 
appellant to implement the project as envisaged under the 
agreed terms resulted in respondents being compelled to 
avail other Service Providers on ad-hoc basis and this  
 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
resulted 
in 
a 
show-cause 
notice 
being 
issued 
by 
respondents to the appellant to terminate the contract and 
by communication dated 22.08.2019, the contract is said 
to have been terminated.  At that juncture, appellant 
herein filed a petition before the learned Single Judge of 
this Court under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act 
seeking for appointment of an Arbitrator for adjudicating 
the disputes arising out of the Master Service Agreement 
dated 28.02.2014 which petition was disposed of on 
14.10.2020 (Annexure-T), in the background of petitioner 
seeking permission to withdraw the petition and to 
approach the Project Management Committee in terms of 
Clause-1.15(a) of the Master Service Agreement dated 
28.02.2014. It is thereafter, appellant submitted its claim 
before the Project Management Committee seeking for 
resolving the dispute between the appellant and the 
respondents 
arising 
out 
of 
the 
agreement 
dated 
28.02.2014 and same is said to be pending. During 
pendency 
of 
these 
proceedings 
before 
the 
Project 
Management Committee, a petition under Section 9 of the 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
Arbitration Act was filed for the reliefs noted hereinabove 
came to be filed by appellant. Said application was resisted 
to by the respondents by filing a detailed statement of 
objections and learned trial Judge by impugned order has 
dismissed the application on the ground that appellant has 
a remedy to seek for award of damages and as such, issue 
relating to termination of contract cannot be adjudicated in 
a proceeding under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act and it 
would be an issue well within the domain of Arbitral 
Tribunal. 
Hence, 
Commercial 
Court 
dismissed 
the 
application.  Hence, this appeal.   
 
5. It is the contention of Sri Unnikrishnan M., learned 
counsel appearing for appellant that trial Court committed 
a serious error in dismissing the application without 
considering the fact that petitioner and respondents are 
partners in a venture and clauses in the agreement dated 
28.02.2014 would clearly support appellant’s case and as 
such, 
tribunal 
was 
not 
justified 
in 
dismissing 
the 
application.  He would also draw the attention of the Court 
 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
to the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Adhunik 
Steels Ltd. v. Orissa Manganese and Minerals Pvt. 
Ltd. reported in AIR 2007 SC 2563 to buttress his 
arguments and in support of his submissions.   
 
6. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for 
appellant, we are of the considered view that there is no 
need or necessity to issue notice on this appeal, since 
order passed by the learned trial Judge is well considered 
and contentions of the appellant which has been urged 
herein has also been considered in a proper perspective 
keeping in mind the authoritative pronouncements of the 
Apex Court and as such, it has rightly dismissed the 
petition and for the reasons indicated hereinbelow, it would 
not call for our interference: 
 
7.  There is no dispute to the fact that agreement 
dated 28.02.2014 was entered into between appellant and 
respondents which was pursuant to a tender floated by 
first respondent which was on account of two tier system 
followed by first respondent was changed to three tier 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
system which also underwent change and was reverted 
back to two tier system of management.  In order to 
facilitate the collection of bus fares, a system was 
introduced to issue smart card to passengers/traveling 
public. It was this software and issue of such smart cards 
which was required to be provided by the petitioner and 
for implementation of the work as provided in the tender 
notification issued in this regard, appellant was said to 
have been selected on the basis of tender notification. In 
the statement of objections which has been filed in detail 
before the trial Court, the reasons for terminating the 
contract of appellant has been indicated.  The learned trial 
Judge 
has 
also 
noticed 
that 
there 
were 
several 
correspondences which took place between the parties 
including e-mails which ultimately culminated in issuance 
of a show-cause notice on 19.07.2019 whereunder it was 
alleged that appellant had failed to deliver Smart Card 
Based Fare Collection System Project as per the agreement 
and not being satisfied with the reply submitted by the 
appellant, the contract came to be terminated on 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
22.08.2019. On 17.09.2019, the appellant has invoked 
Clause-1.15 of the Master Service Agreement and on 
11.11.2019, respondent has sent a communication to the 
appellant calling upon the appellant to refund the amount 
that has been topped up by the commuters to the card if 
any and has also called upon the appellant to furnish all 
the data regarding the number of smart cards that are in 
circulation 
and 
the 
details 
of 
top-up 
amount. 
On 
termination of contract, the respondent has also requested 
the appellant to refrain in future from issuing any cards 
upon which BMTC Logo is embossed and to return unused 
cards. In fact, the Bank guarantee furnished by the 
appellant has also been forfeited on 21/24.12.2019.  
 
8.  The fact remains that Master Service Agreement 
was terminated by the respondent on 22.08.2019. The 
issue relating to termination of agreement as rightly 
observed by the learned trial Judge would not be in the 
scope of proceedings under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act 
and any misadventure made by the learned Judge in that 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
 
regard would have definitely prejudiced the rights of the 
parties and rightly so, learned trial Judge has not taken to 
said course.  On the other hand, it has opined that it can 
only be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal and even if the 
termination is held to be erroneous in law in the arbitral 
proceedings, the appellant would have adequate remedy of 
claiming damages. It would be apt and appropriate to 
notice observation made by the learned trial Judge in this 
regard and it reads as under: 
“30.  So far as the contentions of the learned 
Advocate 
for 
the 
petitioner 
that 
the 
Respondents terminated the contract without 
considering the Replies given by the Petitioner 
to Notice and that the question whether the 
contract has been illegally terminated or not 
can only be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal 
and is not in the domain of this Court.  Even if 
the termination is ultimately held to be bad in 
law, in the Arbitration Proceedings before the 
Tribunal, 
the 
petitioner 
would 
have 
an 
adequate remedy of claiming damages.  As far 
as the arguments of the Respondent that the 
petitioner is guilty of the breach of the 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
 
conditions of the contract, suffice would it be 
to state that this question would be decided by 
the 
Arbitral 
Tribunal 
or 
the 
Project 
Management Committee as per Clasue-1.15(a) 
of the Master Service Agreement, as and when 
constitution, while deciding the question of 
legality or otherwise of the termination of the 
contract.  Therefore, it is clear that in law, 
once termination of contract takes effect the 
operation of the said termination and the 
taking further actions cannot be stayed by an 
interim injunction.  Therefore, I answer this 
Point in the “Negative”.” 
 
9. Though a prayer was made by the appellant 
before the trial Court to injunct BMTC from appointing any 
financial institution or any service provider for Smart Card 
Based Fare Collection System Project till an Arbitrator is 
appointed and to direct the respondents for continuation of 
use of smart cards by the customers of the petitioner on 
the premise that termination has not taken place,  the 
learned trial Judge has rightly refused to grant the said 
 
 
 
 
13 
 
 
prayer on the ground that after termination takes place, 
such injunctive reliefs cannot be granted.  
 
10.  Clause (h) of Section 41 of the Specific Relief 
Act, 1963 would clearly bar an injunction being granted 
namely, where equally efficacious relief can certainly be 
obtained by any other usual mode of proceeding except in 
case of breach of trust. Thus, where the appellant is 
entitled to claim damages for termination, grant of relief of 
perpetual injunction would not arise. As regards, direction 
sought to the respondent to give Bank guarantee amount 
of Rs.75,00,000/- in a Fixed Deposit, the learned trial 
Judge has taken note of the well recognized law with 
regard to grant of injunction in case of an unconditional 
Bank Guarantee by relying upon decisions of the Apex 
Court in the cases of U.P.State Sugar Corpn. Vs. Suman 
International Ltd. reported in AIR 1997 SC 1644 and 
Dwarikesh Sugar Industries Ltd. vs. Prem Heavy 
Engineering Works (P) Ltd. reported in AIR 1997 SC 
2477 whereunder it has been held that exceptional case 
 
 
 
 
14 
 
 
wherein injunction can be granted is where it is proved 
that bank knows that any demand for payment already 
made or which may thereafter be made will clearly be 
fraudulent or in other words, where the fraud has been 
alleged and that too established fraud are extrinsic fraud 
and even in case of intrinsic fraud, grant of injunction in 
the matter of an unconditional Bank Guarantee would not 
be called for. 
 
11.  In fact, we may notice with benefit clause-1.17 
of the agreement dated 28.02.2014 under the  head 
‘Warranties’, appellant in unequivocal terms has stated 
that in the event the Bank is unable to meet the 
obligations 
pursuant 
to 
the 
implementation 
of 
the 
assignment, operations and other services and any related 
scope of works as stated in the agreement, the respondent 
would have option to invoke the Security Deposit after 
serving a written notice of 15 days on the appellant.   
 
12.  It is this precise clause which has been invoked 
by the respondent while issuing show-cause notice on 
 
 
 
 
15 
 
 
19.07.2020 and the termination order dated 22.08.2019.  
It is thereafter, the performance Guarantee which had 
been offered by the appellant has been invoked and 
encashed.  As such, we are of the considered view that the 
learned trial Judge has not committed any error either on 
facts or in law calling for our interference.  Insofar as the 
judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Adhunik Steels 
Ltd. v. Orissa Manganese and Minerals Pvt. Ltd. 
reported in AIR 2007 SC 2563, the Hon’ble Apex Court 
itself noticed that grant of an interim prohibitory injunction 
or an interim mandatory injunction are governed by well 
known rules and relevant provisions of Specific Relief Act 
cannot be kept out of consideration. In the instant case, 
we have noticed that by virtue of Section 41 of the Specific 
Relief Act, appellant is having an alternative and 
efficacious remedy to seek for award of damages if being 
able to prove and establish the termination of agreement 
was illegal and as such, the question of granting any 
interim injunction on the ground that petitioner and 
respondent were partners in the venture of providing 
 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
smart cards does not arise. The appellant was selected by 
the respondent by virtue of tender floated and as such 
there existed privity of contract between the parties under 
the 
agreement 
dated 
28.02.2014. 
According 
to 
respondent, it has stood terminated by virtue of the 
termination notice dated 28.02.2019 and issue regarding 
whether it is valid termination or would not be in the 
domain of Arbitral Tribunal and as such, question of 
examining the said aspect or expressing any opinion in this 
regard would definitely prejudice the rights of the parties. 
Hence, we are of the view that finding recorded by the 
learned trial Judge to the effect that validity of termination 
cannot be gone into in a proceeding under Section 9 of the 
Arbitration Act is a well reasoned order which would not 
call for any interference.   
 
For the reasons aforestated, we proceed to pass the 
following: 
ORDER 
(i) 
Appeal is dismissed; 
 
 
 
 
17 
 
 
(ii) 
The order dated 30.06.2021 passed in 
Com.AA.No.6/2020 by LXXXII Additional 
City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru, 
stands affirmed. 
 
In view of writ appeal having been dismissed, 
IA.No.1/2021 for temporary injunction does not survive for 
consideration and it stands consigned to record. 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
        
Sd/- 
 
   
 
 
 
 
       JUDGE 
 
 
     
 
 
 
                            
 Sd/- 
                JUDGE 
 
LB 
