COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 1  
  
 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU 
DATED THIS THE 20TH DAY OF JULY, 2021 
PRESENT 
THE HON’BLE MR. ABHAY S. OKA, CHIEF JUSTICE 
AND 
THE HON’BLE MR. JUSTICE SURAJ GOVINDARAJ 
 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021 
 
BETWEEN: 
 
M/S M.P. BROTHERS (MANGALURU) 
A REGISTERED PARTNERSHIP FIRM 
HAVING THEIR OFFICE AT SHREYAS CHAMBERS 
KULUR FERRY ROAD, CHILIMBI 
MANGALURU-575006 
DULY REPRESENTED REGIONAL HEAD  
AND AUTHORISED SIGNATORY 
SRI. KETHAN SANGHVI 
S/O SRI. DHIRAJ LAL SANGHVI 
AGED 52 YEARS 
R/AT NO.505 
VAJRESHWARI APARTMENTS 
V.T. ROAD, MANGALURU-575001  
 
         ... APPELLANT 
 
(BY SRI. S.N. PRASHANTH CHANDRA, ADVOCATE-VC) 
  
AND: 
THE PANDAVAPURA SAHAKARA  
SAKKARE KARKHANE LTD.,  
A COMPANY INCORPORATED UNDER  
THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT AND  
HAVING ITS REGISTERED OFFICE AT  
PANDAVAPURA, R.S. MANDYA-571435 
DULY REPRESENTED BY ITS AUTHORISED  
PERSON AND MANAGING DIRECTOR 
SRI. KRISHNEGOWDA 
FATHER’S NAME NOT KNOWN TO THE  
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 2  
  
 
PLAINTIFF, HINDU ADULT 
M/S PANDAVAPURASAHAKARA  
SAKKAREKARKHANE LTD 
PANDAVAPURA. R.S.MANDYA-571435 
              … RESPONDENT 
 
 
(RESPONDENT-SERVED)  
 
 
THIS APPEAL IS FILED UNDER SECTION 13(1) OF THE 
COMMERCIAL COURT ACT 2015, PRAYING TO ALLOW THE APPEAL 
AND THEREBY SET ASIDE THE JUDGMENT AND DECREE IN 
COM.O.S.NO.400/2020 DATED 15.12.2020 ON THE FILE OF IV 
ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE (COMMERCIAL 
COURT) DK, MANGALORE, IN THE INTEREST OF JUSTICE AND 
EQUITY.  
 
***** 
 
THIS APPEAL COMING ON FOR ADMISSION AND HAVING 
BEEN RESERVED FOR ORDERS ON 07.06.2021, THIS DAY,  
SURAJ GOVINDARAJ J., DELIVERED THE FOLLOWING: 
 
J U D G M E N T 
 
1. 
The appellant is before this Court seeking for setting 
aside 
the 
Judgment 
and 
decree 
in 
COM.OS  
No.400/2020 dated 15.12.2020 passed by the IV Addl. 
District and Sessions Judge, D.K., Mangaluru (for short 
‘trial Court’) . 
 
2. 
By virtue of the aforesaid Judgment, the trial Court 
considered the aspect of jurisdiction as a preliminary 
issue and dismissed the Suit by holding that the trial 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 3  
  
 
Court did not have the jurisdiction to try the same, as 
also imposed cost of Rs.20,000/- on the Plaintiff. 
 
3. 
For convenience, the parties are referred to by their 
rank before the trial Court. 
 
4. 
FACTS:  The material facts for the purpose of 
consideration of this appeal, in brief, are as under: 
 
4.1. Plaintiff is an authorised distributor of certain 
products, the Defendant is a factory having its 
office at Pandavapura, Mandya District.  Plaintiff 
and Defendant have had several business 
transactions in the past whereunder the Plaintiff 
supplied certain products to the Defendant.   
 
4.2. The Plaintiff contended that from and out of the 
said transactions, several amounts are due to the 
Plaintiff and as such, a suit in O.S. No.279/2018 
came to be filed in the year 2018 before the 
Principal Senior Civil Judge and CJM at 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 4  
  
 
Mangaluru for recovery of Rs.11,28,521/- along 
with interest at 21% p.a.   
 
4.3. The Defendant entered appearance and filed the 
written statement denying the claim of the 
Plaintiff, by relying on clause 14 of the Tender 
Form contended that all disputes are subject to 
the jurisdiction of the Court at Pandavapura only 
and hence, the Senior Civil Judge and CJM, 
Mangaluru would not have jurisdiction to try the 
same.  Apart therefrom, it was contended that the 
said Court did not have the jurisdiction, and the 
Commercial Court would have to try the same.   
 
4.4. Subsequent to the filing of the Suit due to the 
government notification dated 24.01.2020 the 
matter came to be transferred from the IV Addl. 
Civil Judge and JMFC, Mangaluru to the IV Addl. 
District and Sessions Judge, D.K., Mangaluru 
and renumbered as COMP. OS. No.400/2020.   
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 5  
  
 
 
4.5. On such transfer, the transferee Court on 
29.07.2020 framed the following issues: 
1. 
Whether the Plaintiff proves that, the defendants 
being regular customer had purchased goods on 
credit basis worth of Rs. 7,19,580/- (Rupees Seven 
Lakhs Nineteen Thousand Five Hundred Eighty 
only)? 
 
2. 
Whether the Plaintiff proves that, the Defendant has 
withhold security deposit of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees 
Fifty Thousand only)? 
 
 
3. 
Whether the Plaintiff further proves that, transaction 
is commercial in nature and thereby, Defendant is 
liable to pay interest at the rate of 21% p.a.? 
 
4. 
Whether the Defendant proves that, in view of clause 
14 of the terms and conditions of the Tender Form, 
this Court has no territorial jurisdiction to try the Suit? 
 
5. 
Whether the Plaintiff is entitle for the relief sought 
for? 
 
6. 
What order or decree? 
 
5. 
The trial Court considering that issue No.4 relates to the 
jurisdiction of the Court to try the Suit and being of the 
opinion that findings can be given thereon in the 
absence of evidence as it touches the legal aspects, 
treated the same as a preliminary issue and heard both 
the parties.   
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 6  
  
 
 
6. 
By way of the impugned Judgment, the trial Court 
dismissed the Suit by holding that it had no jurisdiction 
on the ground that in terms of a tender form issued, the 
jurisdiction vests exclusively with the Pandavapura 
Court.   
 
7. 
To arrive at the said finding, the trial Court has 
considered the documents, the purport and intent 
thereof and has concluded that the parties intended to 
be bound by terms and conditions specified in the 
tender form out of which the business relationship came 
into existence and as such, held that its jurisdiction was 
ousted by the aforesaid terms and conditions of the 
tender form.   
 
8. 
The trial Court also came to the conclusion that the Suit 
was filed before the Civil Judge and CJM, Mangaluru by 
suppressing true material facts, in a wrong forum as 
regards which the Defendant suffered loss, as also 
suffered undue hardship and legal expenses and as 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 7  
  
 
such awarded cost of Rs.20,000/-.  It is aggrieved by 
the same that the Plaintiff is before this Court assailing 
the said Judgment. 
 
9. 
Sri.H.N.Prashanth Chandra, learned counsel for the 
plaintiff-appellant submitted as under: 
 
9.1. The order of the trial Court is not sustainable 
inasmuch as the tender condition was one which 
was applicable at the time of submitting of tender 
and the said condition can only be restricted to 
any dispute arising as regards the tender, the 
subsequent 
transactions 
are 
commercial 
transactions.  The goods have been supplied 
from Mangaluru, the payments have been 
received at Mangaluru, invoices have been raised 
at Mangaluru and therefore, the Courts at 
Mangaluru would have jurisdiction.   
 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 8  
  
 
9.2. The invoices which have been raised do not 
specify the territorial jurisdiction and therefore it is 
the general law under Section 20 of the Code of 
Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short ‘CPC’) which 
would come into play for the purpose of 
determining the jurisdiction of the Court and since 
a part of the cause of action arose within the 
jurisdiction of the Courts at Mangaluru, the courts 
at Mangaluru would have jurisdiction. 
 
9.3. As regards filing of the Suit before the trial Court 
and not before the Commercial Court, he 
submitted that there was confusion as regards 
whether the Suit was to be filed before the Civil 
Judge 
or 
before 
the 
Commercial 
Court.  
Subsequent to the notification issued by the State 
Government, the Suit has been transferred to the 
Commercial Court.  Therefore, the same ought 
not to have played any role in the determination 
of the matter by the trial Court.   
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 9  
  
 
 
9.4. There is no proper appreciation of the contentions 
raised by Plaintiff during the course of arguments.  
The trial Court has rendered a finding on fact 
without evidence being on record.  The trial Court 
ought to have permitted the parties to lead 
evidence, if not on the entire matter, at least on 
jurisdiction.   
 
9.5. Even otherwise, the trial Court could not have 
dismissed the Suit on the ground of jurisdiction.  If 
at all the Court did not have jurisdiction, it should 
have applied the principles of Rule 10 of Order 
VII, Rule 10-A of Order VII of CPC and 
transferred the Suit to the Court of proper 
jurisdiction.   
 
9.6. The procedure followed by the trial Court is not 
proper 
and 
therefore, 
the 
said 
impugned 
Judgment needs to be set aside and the Suit 
proceeded with.   
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 10  
  
 
7. 
Though the Defendant has been served, none has 
appeared on behalf of the defendant/respondent. 
 
8. 
Heard the learned counsel for the appellant and 
perused papers. 
 
9. 
On the basis of the submissions, the points that would 
arise for our determination are: 
9.1. Whether the trial Court could have rendered 
findings as regards jurisdiction without the 
parties having lead evidence ? 
 
9.2. Whether a suit could be dismissed only on the 
ground that there is no territorial jurisdiction 
or is a Court required to after coming to such 
a finding transfer the Suit to a court having 
jurisdiction ? 
 
9.3. Whether the imposition of cost of Rs.20,000/- 
is proper and valid ? 
 
9.4. What order ? 
 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 11  
  
 
10. 
Before we deal with the above questions, the relevant 
provisions are extracted hereunder for easy reference: 
Order VII Rule 10 of CPC: 
 
10. Return of plaint:- (1) Subject to the provisions of rule 
10A, the plaint shall at any stage of the Suit be returned to 
be presented to the Court in which the Suit should have 
been instituted.  
 
 
Explanation.— For the removal of doubts, it is hereby 
declared that a Court of appeal or revision may direct, after 
setting aside the decree passed in a suit, the return of the 
plaint under this sub-rule. 
 
(2) Procedure on returning plaint:- On returning a plaint, 
the Judge shall endorse thereon the date of its 
presentation and return, the name of the party presenting 
it, and a brief statement of the reasons for returning it.  
 
Order VII Rule 10A of CPC: 
 
10A. Power of Court to fix a date of appearance in the 
Court where plaint is to be filed after its return:- (1) 
Where, in any suit, after the Defendant has appeared, the 
Court is of opinion that the plaint should be returned, it 
shall, before doing so, intimate its decision to the Plaintiff. 
 
(2) Where an intimation is given to the Plaintiff under sub-
rule (1), the Plaintiff may make an application to the 
Court—  
 
(a) specifying the Court in which he proposes to present 
the plaint after its  
return,  
 
(b) praying that the Court may fix a date for the 
appearance of the parties in the said Court, and  
 
(c) requesting that the notice of the date so fixed may be 
given to him and to the Defendant.  
 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 12  
  
 
(3) Where an application is made by the Plaintiff under 
sub-rule (2), the Court shall, before returning the plaint and 
notwithstanding that the order for return of plaint was made 
by it on the ground that it has no jurisdiction to try the 
Suit,—  
 
(a) fix a date for the appearance of the parties in the Court 
in which the plaint is proposed to be presented, and  
 
(b) give to the Plaintiff and to the defendant notice of such 
date for appearance.  
 
(4) Where the notice of the date for appearance is given 
under sub-rule (3),—  
 
(a) it shall not be necessary for the Court in which the 
plaint is presented after its return, to serve the Defendant 
with a summons for appearance in the Suit, unless that 
Court, for reasons to be recorded, otherwise directs, and  
 
(b) the said notice shall be deemed to be a summons for 
the appearance of the Defendant in the Court in which the 
plaint is presented on the date so fixed by the Court by 
which the plaint was returned.  
 
(5) Where the application made by the Plaintiff under sub-
rule (2) is allowed by the Court, the Plaintiff shall not be 
entitled to appeal against the order returning the plaint. 
 
Section 20 of CPC: 
 
20. Other suits to be instituted where defendants 
reside or cause of action arises:-Subject to the 
limitations aforesaid, every Suit shall be instituted in a 
Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction:  
 
(a) the Defendant, or each of the defendants where 
there are more than one, at the time of the 
commencement of the Suit, actually and voluntarily 
resides, or carries on business, or personally works 
for gain; or  
 
(b) any of the defendants, where there are more than 
one, at the time of the commencement of the Suit, 
actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 13  
  
 
business, or personally works for gain, provided 
that in such case either the leave of the Court is 
given, or the defendants who do not reside, or carry 
on business, or personally works for gain, as 
aforesaid, acquiesce in such institution; or  
 
(c) The cause of action, wholly or in part, arises. 
 
 
11. 
ANSWER TO POINT NO.1: Whether the trial Court 
could 
have 
rendered 
findings 
as 
regards  
jurisdiction 
without 
the 
parties 
having 
lead  
evidence? 
 
11.1.   The facts relevant to this matter have been 
mentioned hereinabove.   
 
11.2. The determination of whether a particular Court 
has jurisdiction or not would depend on the facts 
of each case as also the law applicable to such 
a case/suit.  In some cases, it might be exfacie 
evident from the records of the plaint itself as to 
whether the Court has jurisdiction or not by 
applying the principles of Section 20 of the CPC.  
 
11.3.   A perusal of Section 20 of CPC which has been  
extracted hereinabove would indicate that the 
said Section is very wide in its amplitude and 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 14  
  
 
would confer jurisdiction on a Court even when 
a part of the cause of action arises within its 
jurisdiction.  Thus, unless the plaint makes it 
abundantly clear or exfacie clear that the said 
Court does not have jurisdiction, it would be 
required for the said Court to give a finding on 
fact as regards the jurisdictional aspect.   
  
11.4.   The other relevant provisions which would have 
to be considered is Rule (2) of Order XIV of 
CPC which is reproduced hereunder:  
 
“2. Court to pronounce Judgment on all 
issues-  (1) Notwithstanding that a case may be 
disposed of an a preliminary issue, the Court 
shall,  subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2), 
pronounce Judgment on all issues.  
 
(2) Where issues both of law and of fact arise in 
the same Suit, and the Court is of opinion that 
the case or any part thereof may be disposed of 
on an issue of law only, it may try that issue 
first if that issue relates to- 
 
(a) the jurisdiction of the Court, or 
(b) a bar to the Suit created by any law for the 
time being in force, and for that purpose may, if 
it thinks fit, postpone the settlement of the 
other issues until after that issue has been 
determined, and may deal with the Suit in 
accordance with the decision on that issue”.  
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 15  
  
 
 
11.5.   The aforesaid Rule (2) of Order XIV of CPC 
would require a Court- to pronounce Judgment 
on all issues.  However, Sub-rule (2) of Rule (2) 
of Order XIV of CPC empowers a Court to 
pronounce a Judgment on an issue of law only,   
if that issue relates to the jurisdiction of the 
Court or a bar to the Suit created by any law for 
the time being in force and postpone the 
settlement of the other issues until after the 
above issue is determined and may deal with 
the Suit in accordance with the decision on that 
issue.  Thus, it is clear that in all cases it is not 
required for the Court to pronounce Judgment 
on all issues at the same time.   
 
11.6. The Court could pass Judgment on a particular 
issue relating to jurisdiction of the Court or a bar 
to the Suit created by any law so long as it is an 
issue of law only.  Sub-rule (2) of Rule (2) of 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 16  
  
 
Order XIV of CPC does not mandate the Court 
to try the Suit on a preliminary issue, however it 
may do so, it is ultimately the Court’s discretion 
to pronounce on the jurisdiction issue without 
going into all the issues which discretion must 
be exercised in a judicious manner.   
 
11.7.    In the event of a Court being  of the opinion that 
a decision on a particular issue would decide 
the entire Suit, more so when it relates to 
jurisdiction or the lack of jurisdiction, the 
maintainability or rather the non-maintainability 
of the Suit, it would be in the interest of justice 
for the Court to pass a Judgment on the said 
issue so as to avoid wastage of precious judicial 
time. 
 
11.8.   It is not that a Court would have to pre-decide 
before taking up the matter.  What is required is 
only for the Court to be of prima facie opinion 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 17  
  
 
that a decision on a particular issue would come 
within the purview of Sub-rule (2) of Rule (2) of 
Order XIV of CPC.  It is for this reason that the 
said Sub-rule also provides that depending on 
the decision on that issue, the Court may deal 
with the Suit in accordance with the decision on 
that issue. 
 
11.9.    In our considered opinion, it would be required 
for the Court to exercise its powers under Sub-
rule (2) of Rule (2) of Order XIV of CPC and 
pass an order as to why the said Court is of the 
opinion that an order on a particular issue is 
required to be passed without passing orders on 
all other issues and thereafter take up the said 
issue as a preliminary issue.   
 
11.10. The Court can on the basis of the pleadings 
made in the plaint decide the aspect of territorial 
jurisdiction as a question of law on the basis of 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 18  
  
 
the pleadings made in the plaint on the 
principles of demurer or even if there are a few 
disputes, direct the parties to lead evidence on 
those limited disputes to pass an order on the 
aspect of jurisdiction.  It would not be in the 
interest of justice for the Court to pronounce the 
order or Judgment on all issues but return the 
Suit for presentation before the appropriate 
Court if it is found that the Court did not have 
either territorial or pecuniary jurisdiction.   
 
11.11. There cannot be a straight jacket formula laid 
down in that respect and this aspect has to be 
considered under Sub-rule (2) of Rule (2) of 
Order XIV of CPC.  It is best left to the discretion 
of the concerned Court, which needs to be 
exercised judicially which of course would be 
amenable to the writ jurisdiction under Article 
227 of the Constitution.   
 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 19  
  
 
11.12. It is only where the aspect of jurisdiction would 
require considerable or detailed evidence to be 
led, that an order under Sub-rule (2) of Rule (2) 
of Order XIV of CPC cannot be passed.  When 
an order can be passed on the basis of the 
pleadings on record, as also documents on 
record and/or with limited evidence on this 
aspect, the trial Court may or rather the trial 
Court should pass orders on aspects of 
jurisdiction both territorial and/or pecuniary by 
trying the same as a preliminary issue so as to 
conserve precious judicious time.   
 
11.13. We find support in the above proposition by the 
decision of the Hon’ble Apex Court in the case 
of  Union of India vs. Adani Exports 
(2002) 1 SCC 567 wherein the Apex Court has 
held that when a party raises a question of 
territorial jurisdiction, the Court could have 
passed an order thereon and as such, on an 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 20  
  
 
appeal as regards the Judgment passed on all 
issues, the Hon’ble Apex Court set-aside the 
entire Judgment on account of the said Court 
having no territorial jurisdiction and on an 
application having been filed for transfer of 
case, the said case was transferred to the 
concerned Court.   
 
11.14. The above would also be an example of how a 
proceeding had travelled up to the Supreme 
Court and finally the judgment was set-aside on 
the ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction.  It is 
this aspect which is required to be considered 
by the trial Court and the power under Sub-rule 
(2) of Rule (2) of Order XIV of CPC be exercised 
at the earliest so as to avoid any delay in the 
matter. 
 
11.15. In the present case, the dispute as relating to 
territorial jurisdiction is only as regards whether 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 21  
  
 
the terms in the tender notification would 
continue to apply after the tender is awarded 
and the supply is made.  Though this could not 
have been decided merely on the pleadings 
filed, the said issue could be decided with 
minimum evidence led on that particular aspect 
so as to ascertain the intention of the parties.  
The trial Court before treating the same as a 
preliminary issue ought to have passed an order 
as to why it is treating the same as a preliminary 
issue, namely how it goes to the root of the 
matter and the decision on the said issue would 
render the entire proceedings before it as 
redundant or unnecessary.   
 
11.16.  In the above background we answer Point 
No.1 as under: 
11.16.1. The trial Court could exercise its 
powers under Sub-rule (2) of Rule 
(2) of Order XIV of CPC and 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 22  
  
 
pronounce a Judgment as regards 
the jurisdiction of the Court or a bar 
to the Suit created by any law for 
the time being in force, if possible 
on the pleadings filed on the 
principles of demurer or permit the 
parties to lead evidence on the  
point 
in 
dispute 
as 
regard 
jurisdiction and decide the same.   
 
11.16.2. If the Court were to come to a 
conclusion that the said Court does 
not have the jurisdiction, the plaint 
would be required to be returned in 
terms of Rule 10 of Order VII of 
CPC.  If the Court were to come to a 
conclusion 
that 
it 
has 
the 
jurisdiction in such an event, the 
trial Court could proceed with the 
trial of all other issues.   
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 23  
  
 
 
11.16.3. In the present case, there being 
certain factual disputes, the trial 
Court 
having 
pronounced 
its 
Judgment 
with 
regard 
to 
jurisdiction 
without 
letting 
the 
parties lead evidence is improper.   
 
12. 
ANSWER TO POINT No.2: Whether a suit could be 
dismissed only on the ground that there is no 
territorial jurisdiction or is a Court required to after 
coming to such a finding transfer the Suit to a court 
having jurisdiction ? 
 
12.1.   Rule 10 of Order VII and Rule 10-A of Order VII 
of the CPC deal with this aspect.  Rule 10 of 
Order VII confers powers on a Court to return 
the plaint presented at any stage of the Suit.  In 
terms of the explanation to the aforesaid Rule 
10 of Order VII even the appellate Court or 
revisional Court could return the plaint for the 
said reason.   
 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 24  
  
 
12.2.  A reading of the aforesaid provisions would make 
it clear that the legislature in its wisdom has 
though it fit that the plaint has to be returned 
either by the Court before which the plaint is 
instituted or even by the appellate or revisional 
Court when the said Court comes to a 
conclusion that it did not have the jurisdiction, so 
as to enable the Plaintiff to present the said 
plaint before a Court having jurisdiction in which 
the Suit should have been originally instituted. 
The said provision is a salutary provision 
inasmuch as it envisages that a plaintiff is not 
made to suffer on account of filing of the Suit or 
presentation of plaint in a Court which does not 
have jurisdiction.   
 
12.3.   A return of the plaint can be ordered at any 
stage so as to enable the Plaintiff to present the 
same to the Court in which the said Suit should 
have been instituted.  Rule 10 of Order VII of 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 25  
  
 
CPC therefore makes it clear that in the event of 
a suit being instituted before a wrong court, that 
is a Court not having a territorial jurisdiction 
and/or pecuniary jurisdiction the plaint is to be 
returned to the Plaintiff. 
 
12.4.   The 
aspect 
of 
pecuniary 
and 
territorial 
jurisdiction has been brought in to define the 
jurisdiction of the Court.  Though the Court 
would have the power to adjudicate the issue, it 
is prevented from adjudicating the matter which 
does not come within its territorial or pecuniary 
jurisdiction.   
 
12.5.   This is a matter of convenience.  In terms of 
Rule 10(2) of Order VII of CPC  at the time of 
returning a plaint it is required for the Judge to 
endorse thereon the date of its presentation and 
return, name of the party who presented it and a 
brief statement of the reasons for returning it.  
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 26  
  
 
This would also make it abundantly clear that 
the Court not having either territorial or 
pecuniary jurisdiction cannot dismiss a suit but 
can only return the plaint.  
 
12.6.    The apex court in RSDV Finance Co. Pvt. Ltd. 
vs. 
Shree 
Vallabh 
Glass 
Works 
Ltd.,  
reported in (1993) 2 SCC 130 has held that 
when there is a finding of lack of jurisdiction, the 
only recourse that must be adopted is to the 
return the plaint for presentation to the proper 
Court and not to dismiss the Suit. The relevant 
paragraph being paragraph 7 is extracted 
hereunder for easy reference: 
"7. We have heard learned counsel for the 
parties and have perused the record. In our 
view the learned Division Bench was wrong in 
holding that in the facts and circumstances of 
this case the Bombay High Court had no 
jurisdiction to entertain the Suit. The amount of 
Rs 10,00,000 itself was paid by a cheque dated 
July 5, 1983 drawn on the Canara Bank and the 
said amount was deposited in the bank account 
of the Defendant at the Bank of Baroda, 
Nariman Point, Bombay. On July 11, 1983 the 
Defendant issued a deposit receipt and the said 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 27  
  
 
deposit receipt contained an endorsement of 
‘Subject to Anand jurisdiction’. The date of 
maturity was mentioned as October 3, 1983. It 
is also not in dispute that the amount of Rs 
10,00,000 along with interest was not paid on 
the due date and the Defendant wrote a letter to 
the Plaintiff on October 19, 1983 stating therein 
that in view of certain problems they were not in 
a position to repay the deposit amount on the 
due date and thereby requested the Plaintiff to 
allow the Defendant to keep the deposit till the 
end of November 1983 with interest at 19% per 
annum on the delayed payment as well. The 
Defendant also issued the five post-dated 
cheques for Rs 2,00,000 each drawn on Bank 
of Baroda, Nariman Point, Bombay dated 
November 23, 24, 25, 29 and 30, 1983 
respectively. It is also an admitted position that 
the leave to defend the Suit was obtained by 
the Defendant from the Bombay High Court 
itself. The learned Division Bench in our opinion 
was clearly wrong in holding that the Suit was 
not based on the five post-dated cheques and 
that the Bombay High Court had no jurisdiction 
to try the Suit as the deposit receipt contained 
an 
endorsement 
of 
‘Subject 
to 
Anand 
jurisdiction’. The entire reading of the plaint 
clearly shows that the Suit was based not only 
on the basis of the deposit receipt of                
Rs 10,00,000 but also on the basis of the five 
post-dated cheques. Even if there was any 
doubt in the mind of the Division Bench, the 
learned counsel for the Plaintiff had made a 
request for allowing him to amend the plaint but 
such request was wrongly refused by the 
learned Division Bench. The Division Bench 
was totally wrong in passing an order of 
dismissal of Suit itself when it had arrived to the 
conclusion that the Bombay Court had no 
jurisdiction to try the Suit. The only course to be 
adopted in such circumstances was to return 
the plaint for presentation to the proper Court 
and not to dismiss the Suit. It may be further 
noted that the learned Single Judge trying the 
Suit had recorded a finding that the Bombay 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 28  
  
 
Court had jurisdiction to entertain and decide 
the Suit. Sub-section (1) of Section 21 of the 
Code of Civil Procedure provides that no 
objection as to the place of suing shall be 
allowed by any appellate or revisional court 
unless such objection was taken in the Court of 
first instance at the earliest possible opportunity 
and in all cases where issues are settled at or 
before such settlement and unless there has 
been consequent failure of justice. The above 
provision clearly lays down that such objection 
as to the place of suing shall be allowed by the 
appellate or revisional Court subject to the 
following conditions: 
(i) That such objection was taken in the Court 
of first instance at the earliest possible 
opportunity; 
(ii) in all cases where issues are settled then at 
or before such settlement of issues; 
(iii) there has been a consequent failure of 
justice." 
 
12.7.  This return of the plaint is also to be made 
subject to following the principles under Rule 
10-A of Order VII of CPC which has been 
extracted hereinabove.  While deciding on the 
issue of jurisdiction, the Court must pronounce 
its finding on the same and intimate the decision 
to the plaintiff. 
 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 29  
  
 
12.8.   On such intimation, the Plaintiff can file an 
application specifying the Court in which he 
proposes to present the plaint after its return, 
requesting the Court to fix the date for 
appearance of the parties in the said Court and 
requesting for a notice of the said date to be 
given to the Plaintiff and the Defendant.   
 
12.9.   On such an application being made, the Court 
could fix the date of appearance of the parties, 
give notice to the Plaintiff and Defendant to 
appear on the said date, endorse on the plaint 
the aforesaid requirements and permit the 
Plaintiff 
to 
present 
the 
Suit 
before 
the 
appropriate Court.  This would also avoid 
wastage of time in issuance of fresh summons. 
 
12.10.   In the event of the Plaintiff not availing the 
remedy under Rule 10A of Order VII of CPC, 
then the Court by itself can return the plaint 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 30  
  
 
under Rule 10(2) of Order VII by passing an 
order to that effect.   
 
12.11.   The above process and procedure would 
indicate that an opportunity is required to be 
given to the Plaintiff to make his submission on  
the proposed order to be passed by the Court 
for return of the plaint.  The Court cannot 
directly return the plaint without affording an 
opportunity to the Plaintiff to file necessary 
application under Rule 10-A(2) of Order VII of 
CPC.  It is only if the opportunity is not availed 
that an order could be passed under Rule 10(2) 
of Order VII of CPC.  
 
12.12.   In view of the aforesaid procedure which has 
been prescribed, we are of the considered 
opinion that the trial Court cannot dismiss the 
Suit but ought to follow the rigour of Rule 10 of 
Order VII and Rule 10-A  of Order VII of CPC, if 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 31  
  
 
it were to come to a conclusion that it does not 
have 
either 
the 
pecuniary 
or 
territorial 
jurisdiction.  In the present case, the trial Court 
has dismissed the Suit which it could not do and 
as such, the same is bad in law. 
 
12.13.   We answer point no.2 by holding that a suit 
can not be dismissed only on the ground 
that there is no territorial jurisdiction, on 
coming to a finding as regards lack of 
jurisdiction the Court is required to return 
the plaint to the Plaintiff to present the same 
before 
a 
court 
having 
jurisdiction 
by 
following the procedure prescribed and laid 
down in  Rule 10 and/or 10A of Order VII of 
CPC, as the case may be. 
 
13. 
 ANSWER TO POINT NO.3:  Whether the imposition 
of cost of Rs.20,000/- is proper and valid ? 
 
13.1.   As regards imposition of cost in the above 
matter.  The trial Court has not permitted the 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 32  
  
 
parties to lead their evidence and for the parties 
to cross-examine each other so as to establish 
their case.  In the absence thereof, on the basis 
of oral arguments, the trial Court could not have 
come to a conclusion that the Suit had been 
filed suppressing true and material facts 
requiring imposition of cost.   
 
13.2. We, however, make it clear that in the event of 
the evidence on record being sufficient to 
establish that the suit was deliberately filed in a 
Court having no jurisdiction so as to harass the 
Defendant, then the Court would be well within 
its right to impose such costs as may be 
required including exemplary costs.   
 
13.3.   In the present case, we are of the considered 
opinion that in the absence of evidence on 
record, it cannot be said that there was a case 
made out to impose costs of Rs.20,000/-.  
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 33  
  
 
Hence, the said order imposing cost of 
Rs.20,000/- is set-aside. 
 
14. 
ANSWER TO POINT NO.4: What order ? 
 
14.1.   In the above circumstances, for the reasons and 
findings given above, the appeal is partly 
allowed as we are not deciding the issue of 
jurisdiction.  
 
14.2. The Judgment dated 15.12.2020 passed by the 
IV Additional District and Sessions Judge, D.K., 
Mangaluru 
in 
Commercial 
Original 
Suit  
No.400/2020 is set-aside.   
 
14.3. The matter is remanded to the trial Court to 
consider the said preliminary issue after 
affording an opportunity to the Plaintiff and 
Defendant to lead evidence, both oral and 
documentary.   
 
COMAP. No.14 OF 2021    
 34  
  
 
14.4. In the event of the trial Court coming to a 
conclusion that it has necessary jurisdiction, the 
Court could proceed with the trial of the matter 
on other issues.   
 
14.5. In the event of the trial Court coming to a 
conclusion that it does not have the territorial 
jurisdiction, then the trial Court would have to 
follow the rigour of Rule 10 and Rule 10-A of 
Order VII of the CPC. 
 
 
               Sd/- 
                                                                CHIEF JUSTICE 
                                                     
                                             
                                                      Sd/- 
     
   JUDGE 
 
 
ln 
